Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, United Community’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. UCFC and the Bank have an enterprise risk management program. The Board Compliance and Risk Management Committee governed by a charter, provides oversight of the program. The Board also adopted the Corporate Risk Management and Control Policy. The policy provides a framework for risk identification, monitoring and mitigation through a risk assessment process, including reviewing of policies and procedures to enhance the controls and risk management practices at UCFC and the Bank. The Officers Risk Management Committee, also governed by a charter, leads this process as part of an ongoing program. Cease and desist orders prohibit dividends and restrict certain business activities. United Community’s ability to pay regular quarterly dividends to shareholders depends to a large extent on the dividends received from Home Savings. The Bank Order prohibits Home Savings from paying dividends to United Community without prior regulatory approval. In addition, the Holding Company Order prohibits United Community from paying dividends to shareholders without prior regulatory approval. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and Home Savings’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. United Community has not paid cash dividends in the past two years. Furthermore, there can be no assurance when dividend payments will resume in the future. 17 Table of Contents The Holding Company Order prohibits United Community from issuing or renewing debt without prior approval. Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Dramatic declines in real estate values, along with high unemployment, have disrupted the national credit and capital markets over the last three years. As a result, many financial institutions have had to seek additional capital, merge with larger and stronger institutions, seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection and, in some cases, have been forced into a sale or closure by the bank regulatory agencies. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions, because of concern over the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected and to what extent, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. The reduced availability of credit, the lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, approximately 81.1% of the loans in Home Savings’ portfolio are secured in whole or in part by real estate. As residential real estate prices have declined in the last three years, defaults and foreclosures have increased. Commercial real estate values also have declined, and the owners of many income-producing properties are experiencing declines in their revenue, which may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans. Foreclosures and resolutions of nonperforming loans require significant personnel resources, and given the number of foreclosures in the courts within our market area, the resolution of foreclosures has slowed significantly. Properties acquired through foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure are taking longer to sell in the current economy, which increases the Company’s expenses for managing, maintaining and insuring real estate owned. If we are unable to sell properties at a price that will cover our expenses as well as the unpaid principal and interest on the loan, the resulting write-downs and losses adversely affect the Company’s net income. Over the last three years, United Community has experienced a significant increase in the amount of impaired loans in its construction loan portfolio. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect both the contractual interest payments and the contractual principal payments, as scheduled in the loan agreement. Construction loans generally involve greater underwriting and default risks than loans secured by mortgages on existing properties because construction loans are more difficult to appraise and to monitor. In the event a default on a construction loan occurs and foreclosure follows, we may need to take control of the project and attempt either to arrange for completion of construction or dispose of the unfinished project. Approximately 4.5% of our total loans were construction loans at December 31, 2011. As a result, further deterioration in the portfolio may adversely impact our earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, the money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. 18 Table of Contents Increasing credit risks could continue to adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of our collateral. In addition, substantial portions of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio where foreclosure rates are among the highest in the nation. Consequently, any further decline in the state’s economy could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from savings and loan associations, banks, credit unions, mortgage-banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms and insurance companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. In order to compete, Home Savings may need to lower interest rates on its products to match interest rates offered by its competition, which could have a negative impact on net interest margin and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry or our business, financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and are not necessarily intended to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that recent legislation and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions will stabilize the United States banking system and the enactment of these initiatives may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this 10-K under the heading Regulation. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This new law significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. Because the Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations with significant discretion, many of the details of the new law and the effects they will have on the Company will not be known for months and even years. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act apply directly only to institutions much larger than United Community, and some will affect only institutions with different charters than Home Savings or institutions that engage in activities in which the Company does not engage. Among the changes to occur pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that can be expected to have an effect on the Company are the following: • the Dodd-Frank Act abolished the OTS and transferred its functions to other federal banking agencies; • the Dodd-Frank Act created a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to adopt and enforce consumer protection regulations; • new capital regulations for thrift holding companies will be adopted and any new trust preferred securities will no longer count toward Tier I capital; • the federal law prohibition on the payment of interest on commercial demand deposit accounts was eliminated effective in July 2011; • the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer has been permanently increased to $250,000, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts will have unlimited insurance through December 31, 2012; • the assessment base for determining deposit insurance premiums was expanded to include liabilities other than just deposits; and • new corporate governance requirements applicable generally to all public companies in all industries will require new compensation practices, including requiring companies to claw back incentive compensation under certain circumstances, to provide shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, and to consider the independence of compensation advisers, and new executive compensation disclosure requirements. 19 Table of Contents Although it is impossible for management to predict at this time all the effects the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and the rest of the financial institution industry, it is possible that the Company’s interest expense could increase and deposit insurance premiums could change, and steps may need to be taken to increase qualifying capital. United Community expects that operating and compliance costs will increase and could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Three of the most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan losses, the fair value of real estate owned and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses, sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance or recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses and any loan losses that exceed our reserves would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Material breaches in security of our systems may have a significant effect on our business. United Community collects, processes and stores sensitive customer data by using computer systems and telecommunication networks operated by the Company and its service providers. The Company has security, backup and recovery systems in place and a comprehensive business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be inoperable. United Community also has security in place to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. Third party service providers are required to maintain similar controls. United Community cannot be certain the measures will be successful to prevent a security breach. If such a breach occurs, the Company may lose customers’ confidence and, therefore, lose their business. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As we experience operating losses, additional capital may need to be infused into Home Savings. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required by our regulators to raise additional capital. Any such capital raises may dilute current shareholders’ ownership interest. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Holding Company Order was amended effective November 5, 2010. This amendment removed a requirement in the original Holding Company Order to provide the OTS with a debt reduction plan and added a requirement to provide the OTS with a capital plan. This capital plan is consistent with and incorporated into the strategic planning process that Home Savings has undertaken for the past three years under the terms of the Bank Order. As previously disclosed, the Company filed a capital plan with the OTS in December 2011. In keeping with that capital plan, the Company may seek to raise additional equity capital. The type, timing, amount and terms of possible securities that would be issued in such an offering have yet to be finalized. There can be no assurance that such an offering will be completed or that the Company will succeed in this endeavor. However, the Company anticipates that following any such capital raise, it may give existing shareholders an opportunity to participate through a rights offering. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; the credit history of a particular borrower; changes in economic and industry conditions; and the duration of the loan. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. 20 Table of Contents We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising in foreclosure practices, including delays in the foreclosure process related to certain industry deficiencies, as well as potential losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market. Recent announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large seller/servicer financial institutions have raised various concerns relating to mortgage foreclosure practices in the United States. The integrity of the foreclosure process is important to the Company’s business as an originator and servicer of residential mortgages. As a result of the Company’s continued focus of concentrating its lending efforts in its primary markets in Ohio, as well as servicing loans for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Company does not anticipate suspending any of its foreclosure activities. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company reviewed its foreclosure procedures. The results of our review to date have not given rise to any known demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that we reasonably expect to have a material favorable or unfavorable impact on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. We have implemented additional reviews and procedures of pending and future foreclosures to ensure that all appropriate actions are taken to enable foreclosure actions to continue. Nevertheless, the Company could face delays and challenges in the foreclosure process arising from claims relating to industry practices generally, which could adversely affect recoveries and the Company’s financial results, whether through increased expenses of litigation and property maintenance, deteriorating values of underlying mortgaged properties or unsuccessful litigation results generally. In addition, in connection with the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market, the Company makes certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require it to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Although the Company believes that its mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate, it is possible that the Company will receive repurchase requests in the future and the Company may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. It is therefore possible that the Company may increase its reserves or may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 