ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Like all financial companies, United Community's business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business and future results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Increases in interest rates can affect the value of loans and other assets, including our ability to realize gains on the sale of assets. We originate loans for sale and for our portfolio. Increasing interest rates may reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently the fee income we earn on such sales. Further, increasing interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans and leases, resulting in an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized. In contrast, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of assets related to the servicing rights on loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, we may need to write down our servicing assets faster, which would accelerate our expense and lower our earnings. Credit risks could adversely affect our results of operations. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans will decrease. We attempt to manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. However, conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in 17 interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may increase our credit risk. Such changes in the economy may have a negative impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of our collateral. In addition, a substantial portion of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the state's economy could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from savings and loan associations, banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, securities brokerage firms, asset management firms and insurance companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact the financial services industry. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and are not necessarily intended to benefit our shareholders. Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this 10-K under the heading "Regulation." Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by Home Savings is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and Home Savings' earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our shareholders, there can be no assurance that dividend payments will continue or increase in the future. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management's accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Two of the most critical estimates are the level of the allowance of loan losses and the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for loan losses, sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, or recognize a significant provision for the impairment of mortgage servicing rights. We face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions in the future and we may engage in de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. Also, we may issue equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders' ownership interests. If we acquire other businesses, we may not be able to achieve fully the cost savings and synergies that we expect to result from any acquisition. In addition, because the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, we may lose customers or the customers of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. We also may lose key personnel, either from the acquired entity or from United Community, as a result of an acquisition. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 