ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Strong competition within the Company’s market areas may limit its growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In the Company’s market area, the Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage firms, credit unions, and insurance companies operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (including money center, national and regional institutions) have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than the Company does and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. Changes in interest rates may reduce the Company’s net income. The Company’s net income depends largely on the relationship between the yield on interest earning assets, primarily commercial loans and securities, and the cost of deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the net interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuations and is affected by economic and competitive factors that influence market interest rates, the volume and mix of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in market interest rates affect customer demand for the Company’s products and services. The Company is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that interest bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. In addition, the actual amount of time before loans and securities are repaid can be significantly impacted by changes in prepayment rates and market interest rates. Prepayment rates will vary due to a number of factors, including the regional economy in the areas where the underlying loans were originated, seasonal factors, demographic variables and the assumability of the underlying mortgages. However, the major factors affecting prepayment rates are prevailing interest rates, related refinancing opportunities and competition. Securities are also subject to calls that are due to changes in market interest rates. If this were to occur and should the Company decide to reinvest the proceeds at a potentially lower rate, this may negatively impact the Company’s net interest income. Also, many of the Company’s borrowings contain features that would allow them to be called prior to contractual maturity in periods of rising interest rates. If this were to occur, the Company would either renew the borrowings at a potentially higher rate of interest, which may negatively impact the Company’s net interest income, or repay such borrowings. If the Company sells securities to fund the repayment of such borrowings, the securities sold could result in a loss. Changes in interest rates may also affect the value of the underlying collateral to the borrowing. This may result in additional collateral needed for the borrowings. The effects of interest rate changes on the Company’s net interest income is further described on page 55 of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The geographic concentration of the Company’s loan portfolio and lending activities may increase its credit risk. The Company’s business depends significantly on general economic conditions in the New York Metropolitan area. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the New York Metropolitan area. The local economic conditions in the New York Metropolitan area have a significant impact on its loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond the Company’s control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of its banking operations. Additionally, because the Company has a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s net income. -5- The Company’s continued emphasis on real estate lending could adversely affect the Company’s net income. Originating loans secured by residential real estate is the Company’s primary business. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, primarily in the Metropolitan area. These economic conditions include decreases in real estate values, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal, state, and local governments, and other significant external events. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 88.9 percent of the Company’s loan portfolio was secured by real estate related properties located primarily in the New York Metropolitan market area. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of the properties pledged as collateral for the Company’s loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of the Company’s borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which may have an adverse impact on net income. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan loss, net income may be adversely affected. If the Company’s borrowers are not able to repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans is not sufficient to pay any remaining indebtedness, the Company may experience significant loan losses, which may have a material adverse effect on its net income. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of its loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on its loan quality reviews, experience, and evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses to the loan portfolio, resulting in additional provisions for credit losses. Additional provisions for credit losses would decrease the Company’s net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s loan portfolio, loan underwriting procedures, and the allowance for loan losses, which may require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in its allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs, as required by these regulatory authorities, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s net income. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of the Company’s business activities. The Company is subject to extensive supervision, regulation, and examination by the New York State Banking Department, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as the primary Federal regulator and insurer of deposits. As a result, the Company is limited in the manner in which it conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities, and obtains financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and the Company’s depositors and not to benefit the Company’s stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets, and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves. In addition, the Company must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions that fail to comply with these laws. Changes in laws, government regulation, and monetary policy may have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the Company’s control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws, including with respect to Federal and state taxation, may cause the Company’s results of operations to differ materially. The cost of compliance may adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate profitability. Also, Federal monetary policy significantly affects credit conditions for the Company. These policies are implemented through the Federal Reserve System, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings, and reserve requirements. A material change in any of these conditions may have a material impact on the Bank and, therefore, on the Company’s results of operations. ITEM IB. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 