Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in PNBC’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation’s business. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K together with all of the other information incorporated by reference before deciding to purchase PNBC common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or deems immaterial may arise or become material in the future and affect PNBC’s business. If any of these risks actually occur, PNBC’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of PNBC common stock could decrease significantly. PNBC’s concentration of agricultural loans is subject to risks that could adversely affect earnings. PNBC’s agricultural and agricultural real estate loan portfolio total $145.1 million at December 31, 2006, comprising 23.1% of total loans. The primary risks associated with agricultural loans are weather and borrower’s management. In the event of catastrophic weather conditions, such as severe drought or flooding, these loans would represent a higher risk due to poor crop sales and reduced cash flow that could impact the borrowers’ ability to repay the loan on a timely basis. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the financial condition and results of operations. PNBC’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income. However, certain assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in market interest rates. In a period of changing rates, interest expense may increase at different rates than the interest earned. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease net interest income. The allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses decreasing earnings. In determining the appropriate level of allowance for loan losses, management considers, among other things, the overall composition of the loan portfolio, types of loans, past loss experience, loan delinquencies, potential substandard and doubtful loans, underlying collateral, and other factors that, in management’s best judgment, deserve evaluation. Although management monitors the allowance monthly and considers it adequate to absorb probable losses at December 31, 2006, if any of the assumptions are incorrect, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Future adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Corporation to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses resulting in a reduction of earnings. The Internal Controls of PNBC may not be effective. Management reviews and tests on a quarterly basis its system of internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance polices and procedures. Any system of internal controls, however well designed, is based on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are actually being met. Any failure or circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. There is competition within the PNBC market areas which may limit growth and profitability. Because the banking business is highly competitive, PNBC faces significant competition both in originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition can not only be affected by the pricing of loans and deposits, but also by the variety of products offered. The ability of the Corporation to continue to grow in the markets served while effectively managing interest rate risk is contingent upon being able to operate in this competitive environment, which ultimately affects the Corporation’s profitability. The success of PNBC is dependent on hiring and retaining key personnel. PNBC’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Corporation relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business and the loss of any of these individuals may adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain and/or manage the business effectively. This could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. PNBC operates in a highly regulated environment. PNBC is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. Any changes in the regulations or applicable laws and the failure of the Corporation to comply with any of the regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 