risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Risks and uncertainties not known to us currently, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A prolonged economic downturn or recession could adversely affect the retail and nutritional supplement industries and, therefore, restrict our future growth. In 2008, general worldwide economic conditions declined due to sequential effects of the sub prime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions could negatively affect our sales because many consumers consider the purchase of our products discretionary. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or recession or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, worldwide, or in the specific end markets we serve. If the markets for our products significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Instability in financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access capital markets. In 2008, worldwide financial markets exhibited dramatic instability and the availability of credit became precarious. If these conditions persist, they could affect our ability to access credit markets, including funds under our existing credit facilities. Any restriction on our ability to access credit markets could limit our ability to pursue our expansion strategy through acquisitions or otherwise, and could negatively affect our financial conditions or results of operations. Inability of our retail customers to access credit markets could adversely affect the results of our direct response segment. In fiscal 2008, retail customers used personal credit cards to pay for 90% of their purchases from our direct response segment. If a significant number of these customers lose access to credit cards, that could negatively affect the results of operations of this segment. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe the nutritional supplement market is highly dependent upon consumer perception regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements generally, as well as of products distributed specifically by us. Consumer perception of our products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, national media attention and other publicity regarding the consumption of nutritional supplements. There can be no assurance that future scientific research, findings or publicity will be favorable to the nutritional supplement market or any particular product, or consistent with earlier favorable research, findings or publicity. Future research reports, findings or publicity that are perceived as less favorable than, or that question, such earlier research reports, findings or publicity could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because of our dependence upon consumer perceptions, adverse scientific research reports, findings or publicity, whether or not accurate, could have a material adverse effect on us, the demand for our products, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, adverse publicity regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements in general, or our products specifically, or associating the consumption of nutritional supplements with illness, could have such a material adverse effect. Such adverse publicity 17 could arise even if the adverse effects associated with such products resulted from consumers' failure to consume such products appropriately or as directed. Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the US and abroad, could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our financial results. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several US federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the EPA, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold, including Health Canada in Canada, the Food Standards Agency and the Department of Health in the UK and similar regulators in Ireland, the Netherlands and the EU. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products. Some agencies, such as the FDA, could require us to remove a particular product from the market, delay or prevent the import of raw materials for the manufacture of our products, or otherwise disrupt the marketing of our products. Any such government actions would result in additional costs to us, including lost revenues from any additional products that we are required to remove from the market, which could be material. Any such government actions also could lead to liability, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations imposing more stringent regulatory requirements on the dietary supplement industry will not be enacted or issued. In addition, complying with adverse event reporting requirements impose additional costs on us, which could become significant. We currently are subject to FTC consent decrees and a US Postal Service consent order, prohibiting certain advertising claims for certain of our products. We also are subject to Proposition 65 consent judgments. A determination that we have violated of these obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additional or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. These developments also could increase our costs significantly. For example, the FDA issued rules in 2007 that imposed substantial new regulatory requirements for dietary supplements, including good manufacturing practices ("GMPs"). Congress also passed legislation requiring adverse event reporting and related record keeping which imposed additional costs on us. See Item 1. "Business—Government Regulation" for additional information. In Europe, we anticipate the enactment of legislation that could significantly impact the formulation and marketing of our products. For example, in accordance with the Supplements Directive, maximum permitted content levels for vitamin and mineral supplements are likely to be introduced shortly. European legislation regulating food supplements other than vitamins and minerals also is expected to be introduced. The introduction of this anticipated legislation could require us to reformulate our existing products to meet the new standards and, in some cases, may lead to some products being discontinued. The Nutrition and Health Claims Regulation implemented in July 2007 controls the types of claims that can be made for foodstuffs (including supplements) in Europe, and the criteria a product must meet to use the claims. The Regulation has impacted the claims that can be made for our products, and may impact our sales in Europe. See Item 1. "Business—Government Regulation; Europe," for additional information. 18 In addition, the General Product Safety Directive governing product safety came into force at the beginning of 2004. This legislation requires manufacturers to notify regulators as soon as they know that a product is unsafe and gives regulators in each EU Member State the power to order a product recall and, if necessary, instigate the product recall themselves. As a result, the number of product recalls in Europe has increased substantially and the likelihood that we will be subject to a product recall in Europe has increased. A recall of any of our products in Europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be exposed to legal proceedings initiated by regulators abroad which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income. In Europe, non-compliance with relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. In the UK, it is common for regulators to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. Failures by us or our subsidiaries to comply with applicable legislation could occur from time to time and prosecution for any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Item 1. "Business—Government Regulation," for additional information. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income. As a retailer, marketer and manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury. Our products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and, in most cases, are not necessarily subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Some of our products contain innovative ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. In addition, some of the products we sell are produced by third-party manufacturers. As a marketer of products manufactured by third parties, we also may be liable for various product liability claims for products we do not manufacture. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. For example, we have been named in certain pending cases involving the sale of certain nutrition bars and products that contain certain prohormone ingredients. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings," for additional information. Insurance coverage, even where available, may not be sufficient to cover losses we may incur. Our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations. For example, we may be liable for claims brought by users of our products or by employees, customers or other third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations. We seek to minimize these risks through various insurance contracts from third-party insurance carriers. However, our insurance coverage is subject to large individual claim deductibles, individual claim and aggregate policy limits, and other terms and conditions. We retain an insurance risk for the deductible portion of each claim and for any gaps in insurance coverage. We do not view insurance, by itself, as a material mitigant to these business risks. Our estimate of retained-insurance liabilities is subject to change as new events or circumstances develop that might materially impact the ultimate cost to settle these losses. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses. Any losses that are not substantially covered by our 19 insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering some types of coverage and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering some types of insurance, such as product liability, product recall, property and directors' and officers' liability insurance. We were able to obtain these insurance coverages through July 15, 2009 and our current insurance program is consistent with both our past level of coverage and our risk management policies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain comparable insurance coverage at favorable terms, or at all, in the future. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Product recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased scrutiny by federal, state or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See "Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the US and abroad, could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our financial results" and other risks summarized above. Our operations in international markets expose us to certain risks. We may experience difficulty entering new international markets due to regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems and problems related to entering new markets with different cultural bases and political systems. As of September 30, 2008, we operated 1,074 retail stores outside of the United States. In addition, we had significant wholesale sales outside of the United States. For fiscal 2008, approximately 33% of our net sales were generated in international markets. These international operations expose us to certain risks, including, among other things: •local economic conditions; •changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may limit our ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits or capital to the United States; •exposure to currency fluctuations; •potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs; •difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; •difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, languages and cultural differences; •potentially longer payment cycles; •difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; •national and regional labor strikes; •increased costs in maintaining international manufacturing and marketing efforts; •quarantines for products or ingredients, or restricted mobility of key personnel due to disease outbreaks; 20 •geographic time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world; and •political instability. As we continue to expand our international operations, these and other risks associated with international operations are likely to increase. See Item 1. "Business—Business Strategy" and "Business—Government Regulation." We may not be successful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Historically, we have engaged in substantial acquisition activity. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisition in the future. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and to comply with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Recent instability in the financial markets indicate that obtaining future financing to fund acquisitions may present significant challenges. If we need to obtain our lenders' consent to an acquisition, they may condition their consent on our compliance with additional restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. Acquisitions involve risks, including: •risks associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of acquired companies; •managing geographically dispersed operations; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; •unknown risks; and •the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not integrate any businesses or technologies we acquire in the future successfully and may not achieve anticipated operating efficiencies and effective coordination of sales and marketing as well as revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Acquisitions may impact our results of operations negatively as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt. We may need to divest all or some of our Julian Graves stores. In September 2008, the UK Office of Fair Trading commenced an investigation under the merger control provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002 into the completed acquisition by NBTY Europe of Julian Graves. The investigation is ongoing. If the Office of Fair Trading concludes that there is a realistic prospect that the acquisition of Julian Graves will substantially lessen competition in the UK, or a substantial part of the UK, it will either refer the acquisition for a further investigation by the Competition Commission or accept undertakings from NBTY Europe in lieu thereof. In the event of an adverse finding by the Competition Commission, NBTY Europe may be required to offer undertakings to resolve the competition concerns identified. Undertakings could include divestment of all or some of the acquired Julian Graves stores. Pending the outcome of the investigation, NBTY Europe has not integrated the Julian Graves business with its existing UK operations. 21 We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel, and we may not be able to pursue our current business strategy effectively if we lose them. Our continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. Our ability to manage our operations and meet our business objectives could be affected adversely if, for any reason, these officers or employees do not remain with us. One of our customers accounted for 12% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2008 and the loss of this customer, or any of our other major customers, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During fiscal 2008, Wal-Mart, individually, accounted for 22% of our Wholesale/US Nutrition segment's net sales and 12% of the Company's consolidated net sales. As of September 30, 2008, Wal-Mart, individually, accounted for 19% of our Wholesale/US Nutrition segment's total gross accounts receivable. We do not have a long-term contract with Wal-Mart, and the loss of this customer, or any other major customer, could have a material adverse affect on the results of our operations. In addition, our results of operations and ability to service our debt obligations would be impacted negatively to the extent Wal-Mart is unable to make payments to us, or does not make timely payments on outstanding accounts receivables. We are dependent on certain third-party suppliers. We purchase from third-party suppliers certain important ingredients and raw materials. The principal raw materials required in our operations are vitamins, minerals, herbs, gelatin and packaging components. We purchase the majority of our vitamins, minerals and herbs from bulk manufacturers and distributors in the US, Japan, China, Europe, India, Canada, Australia and South America. Real or perceived quality control problems with raw materials outsourced from certain regions could negatively impact consumer confidence in our products, or expose us to liability. In addition, although raw materials are available from numerous sources, an unexpected interruption of supply or material increases in the price of raw materials, for any reason, such as regulatory requirements, import restrictions, loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, drought or other climate-related events, war or other events, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Also, currency fluctuations including the decline in the value of the US dollar, could result in higher costs for raw materials purchased abroad. In addition, we rely on outside printing services and availability of paper stock in our printed catalog operations. We rely on our manufacturing operations to produce the vast majority of the nutritional supplements that we sell, and disruptions in our manufacturing system or losses of manufacturing certifications could affect our results of operations adversely. We manufacture the vast majority of the nutritional supplements that we sell. We currently have manufacturing facilities in Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and North Carolina in the US, and in Canada and the UK. All our domestic manufacturing operations are subject to GMPs promulgated by the FDA and other applicable regulatory standards. We are subject to similar regulations and standards in Canada. Any significant disruption in our operations at any of these facilities, including any disruption due to any regulatory requirement, could affect our ability to respond quickly to changes in consumer demand and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to compete effectively could affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects adversely. The vitamin and nutritional supplements industry is a large and growing industry, which is highly fragmented in terms of both geographical market coverage and product categories. The market for 22 vitamins and other nutritional supplements is highly competitive in all our channels of distribution. We compete with companies which may have broader product lines or larger sales volumes, or both, than we do, and our products also compete with nationally advertised brand name products. Most of the national brand companies have resources greater than ours. Numerous companies compete with us in the development, manufacture and marketing of vitamins and nutritional supplements worldwide. In addition, our North America and European retail stores compete with specialty vitamin stores, health food stores and other retail stores worldwide. With respect to mail order sales, we compete with a large number of smaller, usually less geographically diverse, mail order and internet companies, some of which manufacture their own products and some of which sell products manufactured by others. The market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. Increased competition from companies that distribute through the wholesale channel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as these competitors may have greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities far greater than ours. See Item 1. "Business—Competition; Customers." We may not be able to compete effectively in one of, or all, our markets, and our attempt to do so may require us to reduce our prices, which may result in lower margins. Failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our market share, business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and growth prospects. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could harm our customer relationships and product sales significantly. The nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which in turn could harm our customer relationship and cause decreases in our net sales. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: •accurately anticipate customer needs; •innovate and develop new products; •successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; •price our products competitively; •manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and •differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing need of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to acts of God, war, sabotage and terrorism risk. Acts of God, war, sabotage and terrorist attacks or any similar risk may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of the shopping and commercial behavior of our customers, changes in the insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. We may be affected adversely by increased raw material, utility and fuel costs. Inflation and other factors affect the cost of raw materials, goods and services we use. Increased raw material and other costs may adversely affect our results of operations to the extent we are unable to pass these costs through to our customers or to benefit from offsetting cost reductions in the manufacture and distribution of our products. Furthermore, increasing fuel costs may affect our results 23 of operations adversely in that consumer traffic to our retail locations may be reduced and the costs of our sales may increase as we incur fuel costs in connection with our manufacturing operations, and the transportation of goods from our warehouse and distribution facilities to stores or direct response customers. Also, high oil costs can affect the cost of our raw materials and components and the competitive environment in which we operate may limit our ability to recover higher costs resulting from rising fuel prices. Our profits may be affected negatively by currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by currency fluctuations due to the geographic diversity of our sales and the countries in which we operate, which may have a significant impact on our financial results. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, 33% of our sales were denominated in a currency other than the US dollar, and as of September 30, 2008, 26% of our assets and 12% of our total liabilities were denominated in a currency other than the US dollar. As of September 30, 2008, we had not entered into any hedging arrangements to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. System interruption and security breaches may affect sales. Customer access to, and ability to use, our websites affect our direct response sales. If we are unable to maintain and continually enhance the efficiency of our systems, we could experience system interruptions or delays that could affect our operating results negatively. In addition, we could be liable for breaches of security on our websites. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches may affect our operating results negatively. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. We own trademarks registered with the US PTO and many foreign jurisdictions for our Nature's Bounty®, Vitamin World®, Puritan's Pride®, Rexall®, Sundown®, Ester-C®, Solgar®, MET-Rx®, WORLDWIDE Sport Nutrition®, American Health®, Flex-A-Min®, Osteo Bi-Flex®, Physiologics® and Leiner® trademarks, among others, and with the appropriate UK, EU, Dutch or Canadian authorities for our Holland & Barrett®, De Tuinen®, Le Naturiste®, Julian Graves® and SISU® trademarks, among others, and have rights to use other names essential to our business. Our policy is to pursue registrations for all trademarks associated with our key products. US registered trademarks have a perpetual life, as do trademarks in most other jurisdictions, as long as they are renewed on a timely basis and used properly as trademarks, subject to the rights of third parties to seek cancellation of the trademarks if they claim priority or confusion of usage. We regard our trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believe they have significant value in marketing our products. We hold patents for certain products, including 41 patents worldwide for Ester-C products. However, there can be no assurance that infringing goods could not be manufactured in foreign jurisdictions without our knowledge and consent. In addition, many types of Vitamin C products are available on the worldwide market, which may affect sales of our unique Ester-C® brand products. We vigorously protect our patents and trademarks against infringement. Many of our products are not subject to patent protection. There can be no assurance that, to the extent we do not have patents or trademarks on our products, another company will not replicate one or more of our products. Further, there can be no assurance that in those foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business the protection available to the us will be as extensive as the protection available to us in the United States. See Item 1. "Business—Trademarks and Patents." 24 Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims against us could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and market share. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also may require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Claims that our technology or products infringe on intellectual property rights could be costly, could cause reputational injury and would divert the attention of management and key personnel, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 