Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Risks and uncertainties not known to us currently, or that may appear immaterial, also may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Business Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe the nutritional supplement market is highly dependent upon consumer perception regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements generally, as well as of products distributed specifically by us. Consumer perception of our products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, regulatory investigations, litigation, national media attention and other publicity regarding the consumption of nutritional supplements. There can be no assurance that future scientific research, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other research findings or publicity will be favorable to the nutritional supplement market or any particular product, or consistent with earlier publicity. Future research reports, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other publicity that are perceived as less favorable than, or that question, earlier research reports, findings or publicity could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our dependence upon consumer perceptions means that adverse scientific research reports, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other publicity, whether or not accurate or with merit, could have a material adverse effect on us, the demand for our products, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, adverse publicity reports or other media attention regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements in general, or our products specifically, or associating the consumption of nutritional supplements with illness, could have such a material adverse effect. Such adverse publicity reports or other media attention could arise even if the adverse effects associated with such products resulted from consumers' failure to consume such products appropriately or as directed. Our success is linked to the size and growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market and an adverse change in the size or growth rate of that market could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse change in size or growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market could have a material adverse effect on us. Underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other factors that are beyond our control, including media attention and scientific research, which may be positive or negative. Instability in financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. In 2009, worldwide financial markets exhibited dramatic instability and the availability of credit became precarious. Markets stabilized somewhat in 2010, but worldwide economic conditions remained unsettled in fiscal 2011. If these conditions persist or worsen, they could affect our ability to access the credit markets. Any restriction on our ability to access credit markets could limit our ability to pursue acquisitions or to expand otherwise, and could affect our financial condition or results of operations negatively. 17 Table of Contents A prolonged economic downturn or recession could adversely affect the retail and nutritional supplement industries and restrict our future growth. In fiscal 2011, general worldwide economic conditions, including concerns relating to debt markets, continued to decline in many countries. These conditions could affect our sales negatively because many consumers consider the purchase of our products discretionary. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic downturn or recession, or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, or the worldwide locations that may continue to be impacted by these general economic conditions. If the markets for our products significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Because a substantial majority of our sales are to or through retail stores, we are dependent to a large degree upon the success of this channel as well as the success of specific retailers in the channel. Approximately 64% of our sales for fiscal 2011 were in the United States. In this market, we sell our products primarily to or through our and third-party retail stores. Because of this, we are dependent to a large degree upon the growth and success of that channel as well as the growth and success of specific retailers in the channel, which are outside our control. There can be no assurance that the retail channel will be able to grow as it faces price and service pressure from other channels. One of our customers accounted for 15% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2011 and the loss of this customer, or any of our other major customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During fiscal 2011, Wal-Mart, individually, accounted for 25% of our Wholesale/U.S. Nutrition segment's net sales and 15% of our consolidated net sales. As of the end of our fiscal 2011, Wal-Mart, individually, accounted for 18% of our Wholesale/U.S. Nutrition segment's total gross accounts receivable. Additionally, for fiscal 2011, our other top three wholesale customers collectively accounted for approximately 26%, of our Wholesale/U.S. Nutrition segment's net sales and 15% of our consolidated net sales. We do not have a long-term contract with Wal-Mart or any other major customer, and the loss of this customer or any other major customer could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, our results of operations and ability to service our debt obligations would be impacted negatively to the extent Wal-Mart is unable to make payments to us, or does not make timely payments on outstanding accounts receivables. Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the United States and abroad, could increase our costs significantly, reduce our growth prospects and adversely affect our financial results. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the CBP, the USPS, the CPSC, the Department of Agriculture, OSHA and the EPA, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold, including Health Canada and the Competition Bureau in Canada, the Food Standards Agency ("FSA") and the Department of Health in the United Kingdom and similar regulators in Ireland, the Netherlands, the EU and China. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation or relabeling, of our products. Some agencies, such as the FDA, could require us to remove a particular product from the market, delay or prevent the import of raw materials for the manufacture of our products, or otherwise disrupt the marketing of our products. Any such government actions would result in additional costs to us, including lost revenues from any additional products that we are required to remove from the market, which could be material. Any such government actions also could lead to liability, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects. In addition, complying with the AER Act, GMPs and other legislation may impose additional costs on us, which could become significant. Moreover, there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations 18 Table of Contents imposing more stringent regulatory requirements on the dietary supplement industry will not be enacted or issued or that certain agencies will not enforce the existing laws or regulations more strictly. We currently are subject to FTC consent decrees and a USPS consent order, prohibiting certain advertising claims for certain of our products. We also are subject to consent judgments under Proposition 65. A determination that we have violated these obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additional or more stringent regulations and enforcement of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time in the United States and globally. These developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. These developments also could increase our costs significantly. In Europe, we anticipate the enactment of legislation that could significantly impact the formulation and marketing of our products. For example, in accordance with the Supplements Directive, maximum permitted content levels for vitamin and mineral supplements are expected to be enacted but have not yet been announced. European legislation regulating food supplements other than vitamins and minerals also is expected to be introduced. The introduction of this anticipated legislation could require us to reformulate our existing products to meet the new standards and, in some cases, may lead to some products being discontinued. The Nutrition and Health Claims Regulation implemented in July 2007 controls the types of claims that can be made for foodstuffs (including supplements) in Europe, and the criteria a product must meet for the claims to be made. We anticipate that this regulation will be implemented in 2012 and will impact the claims that can be made for our products, and may impact our sales in Europe. In addition, we anticipate that it will entail some products being relabeled at an additional cost to meet the implementation date. In addition, the General Product Safety Directive governing product safety came into force in Europe at the beginning of 2004. This legislation requires manufacturers to notify regulators as soon as they know that a product is unsafe and gives regulators in each EU member state the power to order a product recall and, if necessary, instigate the product recall themselves. A recall of any of our products in Europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In Canada the federal government has undertaken an initiative to develop a new framework for drug licensing. The current system of drug regulation in Canada focuses on pre-market activities and licensing is point-in-time, not continuous, subject to the licensee performing its obligations with respect to advertising restrictions, quality of product and adverse reaction reporting. A progressive licensing regime would entail a life-cycle approach to the regulation of drugs and could involve earlier consultation with industry before drug submissions, the requirement for licensees to provide and for Health Canada to review pharmacovigilance (adverse reaction reporting) and risk management plans, and re-evaluation by Health Canada of drug information after a period of initial marketing. Health Canada has completed the consultation process with external stakeholders and is moving towards the development of a progressive licensing framework document. The implementation of a new regulatory framework could have a significant impact on our Canadian operations. There is no indication of when, or if, such new regulatory regime will be implemented. In China, the Food Safety Law, which replaced prior regulations, came into force on June 1, 2009. This legislation requires all imported food to comply with applicable national food safety standards and subjects it to inspection by AQSIQ. Where there are no national food safety standards for some 19 Table of Contents imported food, the MOH approval must be obtained before applying for the inspection; otherwise the food in question cannot be imported into China. The revision of the national food safety standards by the MOH is in progress and some new or updated standards are expected to be introduced in late 2011. The introduction of these new food safety standards may require us to reformulate our existing products to meet the new standards and in some cases, may lead to some products being discontinued. The Food Safety Law also requires overseas food manufacturers to register with AQSIQ or its local counterparts, which must establish records of the credit standing of importers, exporters and manufacturers of imported goods. The imported foods, importers, exporters or manufacturers with unsatisfactory records are subject to stricter inspection or even suspension of their import business. Any restriction or suspension of import of any of our products into China could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Food Safety Law provides for strict regulation and supervision over food claimed to have particular effects on human health, namely "health food," which is mainly subject to the regulation by the SFDA. To the extent AQSIQ or SFDA determines some of our products fall into this category, the manufacture, exportation, importation and sale of such products could be subject to the more complicated registration and licensing requirements, and stricter inspection by SFDA and AQSIQ. AQSIQ promulgated the Imported and Exported Food Safety Regulatory Measures on July 22, 2011, which provides for detailed safety and inspection requirements applicable to imported and exported food. These regulations become effective on March 1, 2012 and require us to go through complicated procedures for importing and exporting our products into and from China. In compliance with these regulations, we are in the process of applying for registration of certain of our products as "health food" to meet applicable requirements for manufacture and export of such products. If we fail to obtain required registration on time, our ability to continue exporting these products from China could be adversely affected, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See "Business—Government Regulation" for more information about the regulatory environment in which we conduct our business. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income. As a retailer, marketer and manufacturer of products designed for human and animal consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury. Our products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods, dietary supplements, or NHPs, and, in most cases, are not necessarily subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. One of our Canadian subsidiaries also manufactures and sells non-prescription medications such as headache and cold remedies and contract manufactures some prescription medications. Some of our products contain innovative ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. In addition, some of the products we sell are produced by third-party manufacturers. As a marketer of products manufactured by third parties, we also may be liable for various product liability claims for products we do not manufacture. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," for additional information. 20 Table of Contents If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Product recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased scrutiny by federal, state or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See "—Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the United States and abroad, could increase our costs significantly, reduce our growth prospects and adversely affect our financial results" and other risks summarized in this Report. Insurance coverage, even where available, may not be sufficient to cover losses we may incur. Our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising from our operations. For example, we may be liable for claims brought by users of our products or by employees, customers or other third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations. We seek to minimize these risks through various insurance contracts from third-party insurance carriers. However, our insurance coverage is subject to large individual claim deductibles, individual claim and aggregate policy limits, and other terms and conditions. We retain an insurance risk for the deductible portion of each claim and for any gaps in insurance coverage. We do not view insurance, by itself, as a material mitigant to these business risks. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses. Any losses that insurance does not substantially cover could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering some types of coverage and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering some types of insurance, such as product liability, product recall, property and directors' and officers' liability insurance. Our current insurance program is consistent with both our past level of coverage and our risk management policies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain comparable insurance coverage on favorable terms, or at all, in the future. International markets expose us to certain risks. As of September 30, 2011, we operated over 1,140 retail stores outside of the United States. In addition, we had significant wholesale sales outside of the United States. For fiscal 2011, international sales represented approximately 36% of our net sales. These international operations expose us to certain risks, including: •local economic conditions; •inflation; •changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may limit our ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits or capital to the United States; •exposure to currency fluctuations; •potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or increased tariffs; 21 Table of Contents •changes and limits in export and import controls; •difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; •difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations; •potentially longer payment cycles; •difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; •renegotiation or modification of various agreements; •national and regional labor strikes; •increased costs in maintaining international manufacturing and marketing efforts; •quarantines for products or ingredients, or restricted mobility of key personnel due to disease outbreaks; •government regulations and laws; •geographic time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world; •political instability; •trademarks availability and registration issues; •changes in exchange rates; •changes in taxation; and •wars and other hostilities. As we continue to expand our international operations, these and other risks associated with international operations are likely to increase. These risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions in which we do business. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the U.K. Bribery Act ("UKBA"). The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires us to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect our transactions. As part of our business, we may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA and UKBA. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. 22 Table of Contents However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in expanding globally. We may experience difficulty entering new international markets due to regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems, and problems related to entering new markets with different cultural bases and political systems. These difficulties may prevent, or significantly increase the cost of, our international expansion. We may be exposed to legal proceedings initiated by regulators in the United States or abroad that could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income. In all jurisdictions in which we operate, non-compliance with relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative, or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. In the United States, the FTC has considered bringing actions against the Company in the past. In the United Kingdom, it is common for regulators to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. Our failure to comply with applicable legislation could occur from time to time, and prosecution for any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See "Business—Government Regulation" for additional information. We may not be successful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Historically, we have engaged in substantial acquisition activity. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisition in the future. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and to comply with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Historical instability in the financial markets indicates that obtaining future financing to fund acquisitions may present significant challenges. If we need to obtain our lenders' consent to an acquisition, they may condition their consent on our compliance with additional restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. Acquisitions involve risks, including: •significant expenditures of cash; •the risk that acquired businesses may not perform in accordance with expectations; •risks associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of acquired companies; •managing geographically dispersed operations; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; •the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies; •incurrence of liabilities and claims arising out of acquired businesses; •inability to obtain financing; and •incurrence of indebtedness or issuance of additional stock. 23 Table of Contents We may not integrate any businesses or technologies we acquire in the future successfully and may not achieve anticipated operating efficiencies and effective coordination of sales and marketing as well as revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Acquisitions may impact our results of operations negatively as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel, and we may not be able to pursue our current business strategy effectively if we lose them. Our continued success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. For additional information about these individuals, see Item 10, "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" elsewhere in this Report. Our ability to manage our operations and meet our business objectives could be affected adversely if, for any reason, we are unable to recruit and retain executive talent. We are dependent on certain third-party suppliers. We purchase from third-party suppliers certain important ingredients and raw materials. The principal raw materials required in our operations are vitamins, minerals, herbs, gelatin and packaging components. We purchase the majority of our vitamins, minerals and herbal raw materials from manufacturers and distributors in Asia, Europe, North America and South America. Real or perceived quality control problems with raw materials outsourced from certain regions could negatively impact consumer confidence in our products, or expose us to liability. In addition, although raw materials are available from numerous sources, an unexpected interruption of supply or material increases in the price of raw materials, for any reason, such as changes in economic and political conditions, tariffs, trade disputes, regulatory requirements, import restrictions, loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, drought or other climate-related events, war or other events, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Also, currency fluctuations, including the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, could result in higher costs for raw materials purchased abroad. In addition, we rely on outside printing services and availability of paper stock in our printed catalog operations. We rely on our manufacturing operations to produce the vast majority of the nutritional supplements that we sell, and disruptions in our manufacturing system or losses of manufacturing certifications could affect our results of operations adversely. During fiscal 2011, we manufactured approximately 90% of the nutritional supplements that we sold. We currently have manufacturing facilities in Arizona, California, Florida, New Jersey, New York and North Carolina in the United States, and in Canada, the United Kingdom and China. All our domestic manufacturing operations are subject to GMPs promulgated by the FDA and other applicable regulatory standards, including in the areas of environmental protection and worker health and safety. We are subject to similar regulations and standards in Canada, the United Kingdom and China. Any significant disruption in our operations at any of these facilities, including any disruption due to any regulatory requirement, could affect our ability to respond quickly to changes in consumer demand and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, we may be exposed to risks relating to the transfer of work between facilities or risks associated with opening new facilities that may cause a disruption in our operations. We purchased a softgel plant in China in May 2010. There have been a number of well publicized incidents of tainted food and drugs manufactured in China in the past few years. Although we are seeking to implement GMPs in our China plant, there can be no assurance that products manufactured in China, or in our other plants around the world, will not be contaminated or otherwise fail to meet our quality standards. Any such contamination or other quality failures could result in costly recalls, litigation, 24 Table of Contents regulatory actions or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to compete effectively could affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects adversely. The VMHS industry is a large and growing industry and is highly fragmented in terms of both geographical market coverage and product categories. The market for vitamins and other nutritional supplements is highly competitive in all our channels of distribution. We compete with companies that may have broader product lines or larger sales volumes, or both, than we do, and our products compete with nationally advertised brand name products. Several of the national brand companies have resources greater than ours. Numerous companies compete with us in the development, manufacture and marketing of vitamins and nutritional supplements worldwide. In addition, our North American and European retail stores compete with specialty vitamin stores, health food stores and other retail stores worldwide. With respect to mail order sales, we compete with a large number of smaller mail order and internet companies, some of which manufacture their own products and some of which sell products manufactured by others. The market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. We also may face competition from low-cost entrants to the industry, including from international markets. Increased competition from companies that distribute through the wholesale channel, especially the private label market, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as these competitors may have greater financial and other resources available to them and possess extensive manufacturing, distribution and marketing capabilities far greater than ours. We may not be able to compete effectively in some or all our markets, and our attempt to do so may require us to reduce our prices, which may result in lower margins. Failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our market share, business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and growth prospects. See "Business—Competition; Customers." Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could harm our customer relationships and product sales significantly. The nutritional supplement industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which, in turn, could harm our customer relationships and cause decreases in our net sales. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: •accurately anticipate customer needs; •innovate and develop new products; •successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; •price our products competitively; •manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and •differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. In addition, we are subject to the risk of a potential shift in customer demand towards more private label products, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. If any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered 25 Table of Contents obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to acts of God, war, sabotage and terrorism risk. Acts of God, war, sabotage and terrorist attacks or any similar risk may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of the shopping and commercial behavior of our customers, changes in the insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets. We may be subject to work stoppages at our facilities, which could negatively impact the profitability of our business. As of September 30, 2011, we had approximately 14,400 employees, with a collective bargaining agreement at our Vita Health Canadian business representing approximately 260 of our employees. If our employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could interfere with our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and could have other negative effects, such as decreased productivity and increased labor costs. Any interruption in the delivery of our products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be affected adversely by increased raw material, utility and fuel costs. Inflation and other factors affect the cost of raw materials, goods and services we use. Increased raw material and other costs may adversely affect our results of operations to the extent we are unable to pass these costs through to our customers or to benefit from offsetting cost reductions in the manufacture and distribution of our products. Furthermore, increasing fuel costs may affect our results of operations adversely in that consumer traffic to our retail locations may be reduced and the costs of our sales may increase as we incur fuel costs in connection with our manufacturing operations and the transportation of goods from our warehouse and distribution facilities to stores or Direct Response/E-Commerce customers. Also, high oil costs can affect the cost of our raw materials and components and the competitive environment in which we operate may limit our ability to recover higher costs resulting from rising fuel prices. Our profits may be affected negatively by currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by currency fluctuations due to the geographic diversity of our sales and the countries in which we operate. These fluctuations may have a significant impact on our financial results. For fiscal 2011, 32% of our sales were denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, and as of fiscal 2011, 24% of our assets and 4% of our total liabilities were denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. In December 2010, we entered into various cross currency swap transactions. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology and any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain customer records, accurately track purchases and incentive payments, manage accounting, finance and manufacturing operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Any interruption in these systems or any interruption associated with the transition of these systems to a 26 Table of Contents new information technology platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. System interruptions or security breaches may affect sales. Customer access to, and ability to use, our websites affect our Direct Response/E-Commerce sales. If we are unable to maintain and continually enhance the efficiency of our systems, we could experience system interruptions or delays that could affect our operating results negatively. In addition, we could be liable for breaches of security on our websites, loss or misuse of our customers' personal information or payment data. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches may affect our operating results negatively. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to determine the extent of unauthorized use of our trademarks and patents. In any case, such efforts are difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that infringing goods could not be manufactured without our knowledge and consent. Many of our products are not subject to patent protection, and thus they can be legally reverse-engineered by competitors. Moreover, even with respect to some of our products that are covered by patents, such as Ester-C® products, there are numerous similar yet non-infringing supplement products in the marketplace, and this negatively affects sales we might otherwise make. Our patents, or certain claims made in such patents, could be found to be invalid or unenforceable. From time to time we face opposition to our applications to register trademarks, and we may not ultimately be successful in our attempts to register certain trademarks. Further, there can be no assurance that in those foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business the trademark and patent protection available to us will be as extensive as the protection available to us in the United States. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims against us could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or marketing our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and market share. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or marketing our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also may require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Claims that our technology or products infringe on intellectual property rights of others could be costly to defend or settle, could cause reputational injury and would divert the attention of management and key personnel, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. We are party to a number of lawsuits (including product liability, false advertising, intellectual property and Proposition 65 claims) that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. The possibility of such litigation, and its timing, is in large part outside our control. While none of the current lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business in which we are involved are reasonably estimable to be material as of the date hereof, it is possible that future litigation could arise, or developments could occur in existing litigation, that could have material adverse effects on us. 27 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In the past we have discovered, and in the future we may discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate any deficiencies we discovered and to improve our internal control over financial reporting. Based upon management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2011, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of that date. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of our 9% Senior Notes due 2018 The noteholders' right to receive payments on the notes is effectively subordinated to the rights of our existing and future secured creditors. Further, the guarantees of these notes are effectively subordinated to all our guarantors' existing and future secured indebtedness. Holders of our secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of the guarantors have claims that are prior to the claims of our noteholders to the extent of the value of the assets securing that other indebtedness. Notably, NBTY, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, including the guarantors, are parties to the senior secured credit facilities, which are secured by liens on substantially all our assets and the guarantors' assets. The notes are effectively subordinated to all our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. In the event of any distribution or payment of our assets in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization, or other bankruptcy proceeding, holders of secured indebtedness will have a prior claim to those of our assets that constitute their collateral. Holders of the notes participate ratably with all holders of our unsecured indebtedness that is deemed to be of the same class as the notes, and potentially with all our other general creditors, based upon the respective amounts owed to each holder or creditor, in our remaining assets. In any of the foregoing events, we cannot assure noteholders that there will be sufficient assets to pay amounts due on the notes. As a result, noteholders may receive less, ratably, than holders of secured indebtedness. As of September 30, 2011, the aggregate amount of our secured indebtedness was approximately $1,737 million. We have $200 million of unused commitments available for additional borrowing under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities, as amended. We are permitted to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future under the terms of the indenture governing the notes. 28 Table of Contents Claims of noteholders will be effectively subordinated to claims of creditors of all our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by our current and future domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of our senior secured credit facilities. However, the historical consolidated financial statements included in this Report include all our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Our foreign subsidiaries, which do not guarantee the notes, held approximately $1,246 million, or 24%, of our total assets and $131 million, or 4%, of our total liabilities as of September 30, 2011 and accounted for approximately $938 million, or 32%, of our net sales, for fiscal 2011 (all amounts presented exclude intercompany balances). In addition, we have the ability to designate certain of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries under the terms of the indenture, and any subsidiary so designated will not be a guarantor of the notes. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due under the notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments. Any right that we or the subsidiary guarantors have to receive any assets of any of the non-guarantor subsidiaries upon the liquidation or reorganization of those subsidiaries, and the consequent rights of noteholders to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries' assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of those subsidiaries' creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt of that subsidiary. The trading price of the notes may be volatile and can be affected by many factors, including our credit rating. The trading price of the notes could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to, among other factors, changes in our operating results, interest rates, the market for non-investment grade securities, general economic conditions and securities analysts' recommendations, if any, regarding our securities. Credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for companies they follow, including us. Any ratings downgrade could adversely affect the trading price of the notes, or the trading market for the notes, to the extent a trading market for the notes develops. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future and any fluctuation may impact the trading price of the notes. We are a holding company with no operations and may not have access to sufficient cash to make payments on our credit obligations. We are a holding company and have limited direct operations. Our most significant assets are the equity interests we hold in our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our outstanding debt service and other obligations and such dividends may be restricted by law or the instruments governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the notes, the agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities or other agreements of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the notes. In addition, our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, except for our existing and future subsidiaries that will be the guarantors of the notes, any payments on dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to legal and contractual restrictions on dividends. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings. Additionally, we may be limited in our ability to cause our existing and any future joint ventures to distribute their earnings to us. Subject to certain qualifications, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the notes, to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict payments from those subsidiaries to us. We can give no assurance that agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit those subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient cash to fund payments of principal premiums, if any, and 29 Table of Contents interest on the notes when due. In addition, any guarantee of the notes will be subordinated to any senior secured indebtedness of a subsidiary guarantor to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness. Federal and state statutes may allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the guarantees and require noteholders to return payments received from guarantors. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a guarantee could be deemed a fraudulent transfer if the guarantor received less than a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for giving the guarantee and: •was insolvent on the date that it gave the guarantee or became insolvent as a result of giving the guarantee; or •was engaged in business or a transaction, or was about to engage in business or a transaction, for which property remaining with the guarantor was an unreasonably small capital; or •intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts that would be beyond the guarantor's ability to pay as those debts matured. A guarantee could also be deemed a fraudulent transfer if it was given with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any entity to which the guarantor was or became, on or after the date the guarantee was given, indebted. The measures of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding with respect to the foregoing. Generally, however, a guarantor would be considered insolvent if: •the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, is greater than all its assets, at a fair valuation; or •the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or •it could not pay its debts as they become due. We cannot predict: •what standard a court would apply to determine whether a guarantor was insolvent as of the date it issued the guarantee or whether, regardless of the method of valuation, a court would determine that the guarantor was insolvent on that date; or •whether a court would determine that the payments under the guarantee constituted fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds. The indenture contains a "savings clause" intended to limit each subsidiary guarantor's liability under its guarantee to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer under applicable law. There can be no assurance that this provision will be upheld as intended. In a recent case, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of Florida found this kind of provision in that case to be ineffective, and held the subsidiary guarantees to be fraudulent transfers and voided them in their entirety. Although this ruling was reversed, there can be no assurance that other courts will not reach the same conclusion as the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of Florida. If a guarantee is deemed to be a fraudulent transfer, it could be voided altogether, or it could be subordinated to all other debts of the guarantor. In that case, any payment by the guarantor under its guarantee could be required to be returned to the guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the guarantor. If a guarantee is voided or held unenforceable for any other reason, noteholders would cease to have a claim against the subsidiary based on the guarantee and would be 30 Table of Contents creditors only of NBTY, Inc. and any guarantor whose guarantee was not similarly voided or otherwise held unenforceable. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities have the discretion to release the guarantors under our senior secured credit facilities in a variety of circumstances, which will cause those guarantors to be released from their guarantees of the notes. While any obligations under our senior secured credit facilities remain outstanding, any guarantee of the notes may be released without action by, or consent of, any holder of the notes or the trustee under the indenture governing the notes, at the discretion of lenders under our senior secured credit facilities, if such guarantor is no longer a guarantor of obligations under our senior secured credit facilities or any other indebtedness. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities will have the discretion to release the guarantees under our senior secured credit facilities in a variety of circumstances. A noteholder will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior to claims of noteholders. We may not be able to satisfy our obligations to holders of the notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of a "change of control," as defined in the indenture, each noteholder will have the right to require us to purchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest. Our failure to purchase, or give notice of purchase of, the notes would be a default under the indenture, which would in turn be a default under our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes. In addition, a change of control may constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes. A default under our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes would result in an event of default under the indenture if the lenders accelerate the debt under our senior secured credit facilities or the holders accelerate the debt under the indenture governing the notes. If a change of control occurs, we may not have enough assets to satisfy all obligations under the indenture related to the notes. Upon the occurrence of a change of control we could seek to refinance the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes or obtain a waiver from the lenders and noteholders. We can give no assurance, however, that we would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. No assurances can be given that any court would enforce the change of control provisions in the indenture governing the notes as written for the benefit of the holders, or as to how these change of control provisions would be impacted were we to become a debtor in a bankruptcy case. Certain private equity investment funds affiliated with Carlyle own substantially all the equity of Alphabet Holding Company, Inc. ("Holdings"), our sole shareholder, and their interests may not be aligned with those of our noteholders. Carlyle owns substantially all the fully diluted equity of Holdings, our sole shareholder, and, therefore, has the power to control our affairs and policies. Carlyle also controls the election of directors, the appointment of management, the entry into mergers, sales of substantially all our assets and other extraordinary transactions. The directors so elected have authority, subject to the terms of our debt, to issue additional stock, implement stock repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other decisions. Carlyle's interest could conflict with the interests of our noteholders. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Carlyle and certain of its affiliates and co-investors, as equity holders, might conflict with the interests of our noteholders. Carlyle also may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to our noteholders. Additionally, Carlyle is in the business of making investments in companies, and from time to time in the future may acquire interests in businesses that 31 Table of Contents directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business, or are suppliers or customers of ours. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the notes. As a result of the Merger, we have a significant amount of indebtedness. At September 30, 2011, we had $2.4 billion of indebtedness on a consolidated basis, of which $1.7 billion was secured indebtedness. We also have an additional $200 million of unused commitments under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities, as amended. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; •increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; •restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; •expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities will be subject to variable rates of interest; •expose us to additional risks related to currency exchange rates and repatriation of funds; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes. Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the notes and the agreements governing the senior secured credit facilities may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indenture governing the notes and the agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit our ability, and the terms of any future indebtedness may limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; •make certain investments; •pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock; •sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; •agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all our assets; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •incur liens; and •designate any of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. The restrictions contained in the indenture governing the notes and the agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities also could limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. 32 Table of Contents A breach of any of these restrictive covenants (to the extent applicable at such time), or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in a default under the agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities. If a default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities may elect to: •declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable; or •prevent us from making unscheduled prepayments or payments on the notes, either of which would result in an event of default under the indenture governing the notes. The lenders also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities also have the right to proceed against the collateral, including our available cash, granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities and the notes were to be accelerated, we can give no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness, including the notes. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. The indenture governing the notes and the senior secured credit facilities permit us to incur a substantial amount of additional debt, including secured debt. Any additional borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities, and any other secured debt, would be effectively senior to the notes and any guarantees thereof to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. This, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under our senior secured credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may need to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The indenture governing the notes and our senior secured credit facilities restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or 33 Table of Contents liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may need to obtain waivers in the future from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could negatively impact our business. In the current volatile credit market, there is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including extending credit up to the maximum permitted by our senior secured credit facilities and otherwise accessing capital or honoring loan commitments. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments with us, or we are unable to borrow, it could be difficult in this environment to replace our senior secured credit facilities on similar terms. 