Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This report and other documents that we file with the SEC, as well as other oral or written statements we may make from time to time, contain information based on management’s beliefs and include forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and there are a number of factors including, but not limited to, those listed in this Item 1A, that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the results contemplated by such forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Economic Pressures Our business may be negatively affected by current global economic and credit conditions. Our business has been, and will continue to be, sensitive to domestic and global economic and credit conditions. For example, recovery from the credit crisis and global economic downturn of 2008 has been slow and has created a challenging environment in which to market our products and services in our various businesses across different geographic segments. The strength and acceleration of the global economic recovery will depend on a number of factors, including the effects of government actions to address sovereign debt issues, improve global credit markets and generally stimulate economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the success of these actions, or the development of new economic conditions that could impact our business. A continued negative economic climate could impact the ability of our customers to make capital expenditures, thereby affecting their ability to purchase our products or services. Additionally, customers in the financial services sector could continue to consolidate, which could further reduce our base of potential customers in the financial industry. Furthermore, our retail customers could face continued weak consumer spending and fluctuating consumer confidence. This could, in turn, result in increased financial pressures that could impact their capital expenditures and, potentially, certain customers’ ability to pay accounts receivable owed to NCR. Negative global economic conditions also may have a material effect on our customers’ ability to obtain financing for the purchase of our products and services from third party financing companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our inability to access our credit facility could negatively affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. Our $500 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (which we refer to as the facility), which expires in 2012, is provided by a syndication of several banks that share the committed financing under the facility. Beginning in 2008, economic and credit market conditions have presented banks and financial institutions with significant challenges, which has led to numerous bank failures and to a number of such entities seeking capital from the U.S. federal government. Although we monitor the ability of the banks within the syndication to fulfill their counterparty responsibilities, future market conditions could affect the ability of one or more of these banks to provide the financing that has been committed under the facility. Additionally, the availability under the facility is determined by our compliance with certain financial debt covenants. The inability to access the full capacity of our facility, due either to counterparties failing to fulfill financing responsibilities or to our non-compliance with debt covenants, could impact our working capital, research and development activities and capital expenditures, and could, in turn, have a material, adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and liquidity. Competition If we do not compete effectively within the technology industry, we will not be successful. We operate in the intensely competitive information technology industry. This industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, price and cost reductions, and increasingly greater commoditization of products, making differentiation difficult. Our competitors include other large companies in the technology industry, such as: IBM, Hewlett-Packard Company, Diebold, Inc., Wincor, Hyosung, Fujitsu, Unisys Corporation, Coinstar, Inc. and Netflix, some of which have more widespread distribution and market penetration for their platforms and service offerings. In addition, we compete with companies in specific market segments, such as entry-level ATMs, imaging solutions, and business consumables and media products. Our future competitive performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: • react to competitive product and pricing pressures (particularly in the ATM marketplace); 9 Table of Contents • penetrate and meet the changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets, such as India and China; • exploit opportunities in new vertical markets, such as travel and gaming, healthcare, and entertainment; • rapidly and continually design, develop and market, or otherwise maintain and introduce innovative solutions and related products and services for our customers that are competitive in the marketplace; • react on a timely basis to shifts in market demands; • compete in reverse auctions for new and continuing business; • reduce costs without creating operating inefficiencies; • maintain competitive operating margins; • improve product and service delivery quality; and • effectively market and sell all of our diverse solutions. Our business and operating performance could be impacted by external competitive pressures, such as increasing price erosion and the entry of new competitors. Our customers sometimes finance our product sales through third-party financing companies. In the case of customer default, these financing companies may be forced to resell this equipment at discounted prices, thus impacting our ability to sell incremental units. The impact of these product and pricing pressures could include lower customer satisfaction, decreased demand for our solutions, loss of market share and reduction of operating profits. Operating Results Fluctuations Our revenue and operating results could fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: Manufacturing Insourcing. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we began manufacturing advanced ATMs at our new facilities in Columbus, Georgia, USA and Manaus, Brazil, and in 2010 we began the production of our self checkout solutions in the Columbus, Georgia, USA and Budapest, Hungary facilities, transitioning from an outsourcing arrangement with Flextronics International Ltd. If we develop problems with product quality or on-time delivery to customers as a result of this decision, we could experience business interruption that could negatively impact our business and operating results. Seasonality. Our sales are historically seasonal, with lower revenue in the first quarter and higher revenue in the fourth quarter of each year. Such seasonality also causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on the variability in the volume, timing and mix of product sales. In addition, revenue in the third month of each quarter is typically higher than in the first and second months. These factors, among other things, make forecasting more difficult and may adversely affect our ability to manage working capital and to predict financial results accurately. Foreign Currency. Our revenue and operating income are subject to variability due to the effects of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar. We have exposure to approximately 50 functional currencies. Due to our global operations, weaknesses in some of these currencies are sometimes offset by strengths in others. We endeavor to mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations by our hedging strategy; however, certain significant currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, including sales and gross margins. Cost/Expense Reductions. While we continue to search for opportunities to reduce our costs and expenses to improve operating profitability without jeopardizing the quality of our products or the effectiveness of our operations, our success in achieving targeted cost and expense reductions depends on a number of factors. These include our ability to achieve infrastructure rationalizations, drive lower component costs, improve supply chain efficiencies, and among other things, optimize the efficiency of our customer services resources. If we do not successfully execute on our cost reduction initiatives or if we experience delays in completing the implementation of these initiatives, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations of Consulting Services. We maintain a professional services consulting workforce to fulfill contracts that we enter into with our customers which may contemplate that services will be performed over multiple periods. Our profitability under those contracts is largely a function of performing our contractual obligations within the estimated costs to perform these obligations. If we exceed these estimated costs, our profitability related to these contracts may be negatively impacted. In addition, if we are unable to maintain appropriate utilization rates for our consultants, we may not be able to sustain profitability on these contracts. Acquisitions and Divestitures. As part of our strategy, we intend to selectively acquire and divest technologies, products and businesses. As these acquisitions and divestitures take place and we begin to include or exclude, as the case may be, the financial results related to these transactions, it could cause our operating results to fluctuate materially, depending on the size and nature of any future transactions. In addition, our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to properly integrate future acquisitions or if investments do not perform up to, or meet, our original expectations. Investment in Entertainment. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue expanding our network of DVD kiosks. Our success in this business depends on a number of factors, including deploying new DVD kiosks to reach roll-out targets, securing new customer contracts, establishing business practices necessary for the efficient operation of an owner-operator business model and average time for kiosks to reach maturity. The success of our strategy also depends on our ability to maintain access to DVD inventory in accordance with customer demand. If we fail to successfully manage our DVD supplier relationships, our entertainment business could experience lower margins, or conversely, an inability to meet consumer demand for DVDs at our kiosk locations. In addition, the conversion to, and market adoption of, alternative methods of content delivery, including digital delivery, could negatively impact this business. If we do not successfully execute our strategy to meet the changing technological requirements necessary to satisfy consumers, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Pension Funds. Consistent with local competitive practice and regulations, we sponsor pension plans in many of the countries where we do business. A number of these pension plans are supported by pension fund investments that are subject to financial market risk. Additionally, we are required to make a number of actuarial assumptions for each plan, including the expected long-term return on plan assets and the discount rate on a country-by-country basis after consultation with independent actuarial consultants. We examine interest rate levels and trends within each country, particularly yields on high-quality long-term corporate bonds, relative to our expected future benefit payments to determine our discount rate assumptions. Our long-term expected rate of return on asset assumptions are developed by considering the asset allocation and implementation strategies employed by each pension fund relative to capital market expectations. Beginning in 2008, financial markets experienced significant volatility, with declining government bond yields and widening credit spreads on fixed income investments and poor performance in equity markets. The equity markets improved somewhat in 2009 and 2010, and in 2010 we began implementation of a three-year pension strategy to rebalance our pension asset portfolio. However, we continue to have a significant, underfunded pension obligation, which may require material increases in cash contributions in future years. Our financial position and liquidity could be materially impacted by these contributions. See “Effects of Pension, Postemployment and Postretirement Benefit Plans” and “Financial Condition, Liquidity And Capital Resources” sections of the “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report and Note 9, “Employee Benefit Plans” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further information regarding the funded status of our pension plans and potential future cash contributions. Our future financial results could be materially impacted by further volatility in the performance of financial markets, changes in regulations regarding funding requirements, an inability to successfully implement our pension strategy and changes in the actuarial assumptions, including those described in our “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of the “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report. 11 Table of Contents Stock-based Compensation. Similar to other companies, we use stock awards as a form of compensation for certain employees and non-employee directors. All stock-based awards, including grants of employee stock options, are required to be recognized in our financial statements based on their fair values. The amount recognized for stock compensation expense could vary depending on a number of assumptions or changes that may occur. For example, assumptions such as the risk-free rate, expected holding period and expected volatility that drive our valuation model could change. Other examples that could have an impact include changes in the mix and type of awards, changes in our compensation plans or tax rate, changes in our forfeiture rate, differences in actual results compared to management’s estimates for performance-based awards or an unusually high amount of expirations of stock options. Income Taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. As a result of the significant declines in the value of pension plan assets and increases in the actuarially valued pension benefit obligations, our deferred tax assets increased significantly beginning in 2008 and totaled $768 million and $740 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates, if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, or if the tax laws change unfavorably, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate. Additionally, we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions both in the U.S. and internationally, the outcomes of which could result in the assessment of additional taxes. Our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, the changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations, and management’s assessment in regards to repatriation of earnings. Real Estate. Our strategy over the past several years with respect to owned and leased real estate has been to reduce our holdings of excess real estate. In line with this strategy, the exit of facilities may affect net income, and current and future real estate market conditions could impede our ability to reduce the size of our real estate portfolio or affect the amount of consideration received in any transactions. Multinational Operations. Our multinational operations, including our expansion into new and emerging markets, expose us to business and legal risk in the various countries where we do business. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the percentage of revenues from outside of the United States was 68% and 65%, respectively, and we expect our percentage of revenues generated outside the United States to continue to be significant. In addition, we continue to seek to further penetrate existing international markets, and to identify opportunities to enter into or expand our presence in developing and emerging markets, including Brazil, Russia, China, Africa, and the Middle East. While we believe that our geographic diversity may help to mitigate some risks associated with geographic concentrations of operations (e.g., adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, deteriorating economic environments or business disruptions due to economic or political uncertainties), our ability to manufacture and sell our solutions internationally, including in new and emerging markets, is subject to risks, which include, among others: • the continuing impact of the global economic and credit crises on the stability of national economies; • political conditions that could adversely affect demand for our solutions in these markets; • the impact of a continued downturn in the global economy on demand for our products; • currency exchange rate fluctuations that could result in lower demand for our products as well as generate currency translation losses; • changes to and compliance with a variety of laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent us from effectively competing internationally; • the institution of, or changes to, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; 12 Table of Contents • the successful implementation and use of systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in foreign markets; • changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; • work stoppages and other labor conditions or issues; • disruptions in transportation and shipping infrastructure; and • the impact of civil unrest relating to war and terrorist activity on the economy or markets in general, or on our ability, or that of our suppliers, to meet commitments. Introduction of New Solutions. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing environment in which we do business, our business results will be impacted. The development process for our solutions requires high levels of innovation from both our product development team and suppliers of the components embedded in our solutions. In addition, the development process can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources to bring our business solutions to market. If we are unable to anticipate our customers’ needs and technological trends accurately, or are otherwise unable to complete development efficiently, we would be unable to introduce new solutions into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results could be impacted. Likewise, we sometimes make assurances to customers regarding the operability and specifications of new technologies, and our results could be impacted if we are unable to deliver such technologies, or if such technologies do not perform as planned. Also, if we cannot successfully market and sell both existing and newly developed solutions, our business and operating results could be impacted. Our hardware and software-based solutions may contain known, as well as undetected errors, which may be found after the product introductions and shipments. While we attempt to remedy errors that we believe would be considered critical by our customers prior to shipment, we may not be able to detect or remedy all such errors, and this could result in lost revenues, delays in customer acceptance and incremental costs, each of which would impact our business and operating results. Reliance on Third Parties. If third-party suppliers upon which we rely are not available, our ability to bring our products to market in a timely fashion could be affected. In most cases, there are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize in our products. However, there are some services and components that are purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology or other reasons. For example, we depend on transaction processing services from Accenture, computer chips and microprocessors from Intel Corporation and operating systems from Microsoft Corporation. Certain parts and components used in the manufacturing of our ATMs and the delivery of many of our retail solutions are also supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses who provide us with critical products for our solutions. If we were unable to purchase the necessary services, including contract manufacturing, parts, components or products from a particular vendor, and we had to find an alternative supplier, our new and existing product shipments and solution deliveries could be delayed, impacting our business and operating results. We have, from time to time, formed alliances with third parties that have complementary products, software, services and skills. These alliances represent many different types of relationships, such as outsourcing arrangements to manufacture hardware and subcontract agreements with third parties to perform services and provide products and software to our customers in connection with our solutions. For example, we rely on third parties for cash replenishment services for our ATM products. Also, some of these third parties have access to confidential NCR and customer data, the integrity and security of which we need to ensure. These alliances introduce risks that we cannot control, such as nonperformance by third parties and difficulties with or delays in integrating elements provided by third parties into our solutions. Lack of information technology infrastructure, shortages in business capitalization, and manual processes and data integrity issues of smaller suppliers can also create product time delays, inventory and invoicing problems, staging delays, as well as other operating issues. The failure of third parties to provide high-quality products or services that conform to required specifications or contractual arrangements could impair the delivery of our solutions on a timely basis, create exposure for non-compliance with our contractual commitments to our customers and impact our business and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Intellectual Property. Our continuing ability to be a leading technology and services solutions provider could be negatively affected if we do not develop and protect intellectual property that drives innovation. It is critical to our continued development of leading technologies that we are able to protect and enhance our proprietary rights in our intellectual property through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. These efforts include protection of the products and the application, diagnostic and other software we develop. To the extent we are not successful in protecting our proprietary rights, our business could be adversely impacted. Also, many of our offerings rely on technologies developed by others, and if we are unable to continue to obtain licenses for such technologies, our business would be impacted. Over the last several years, there has been an increase in the issuance of software and business method patents, and more companies are aggressively enforcing their intellectual property rights. These trends could impact NCR. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent and other intellectual property claims. Whether such claims are with or without merit, they may require significant resources to defend. If an infringement claim is successful, or in the event we are unable to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business could be adversely affected. Data Privacy and Protection. Breaches to our systems or products which compromise the security and integrity of personally identifiable information could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Certain of our products and services are used by our customers to store and transmit personally identifiable information of their customers. Also, we regularly collect, transfer and retain certain customer data as part of our entertainment business, and maintain personal information about our employees. This information is subject to a variety of laws, regulations and industry standards governing its collection, use, disclosure and disposal. Vulnerabilities in the security of our products and services, whether relating to hardware, software or otherwise, could compromise the confidentiality of, or result in unauthorized access to or the loss of information transmitted or stored using our products or solutions. Additionally, vulnerabilities in the security of our own internal systems could compromise the confidentiality of, or result in unauthorized access to personal information of our employees. If we do not maintain the security and integrity of personally identifiable information in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, we could lose customers and be exposed to claims, costs and reputational harm that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are required to implement new or different data protection measures, the associated costs could be significant. Work Environment. Our restructuring and re-engineering initiatives could negatively impact productivity and business results. As part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure, from time to time, we shift and realign our employee resources, which could temporarily result in reduced productivity levels. In addition to our initiatives to reduce costs and expenses, we have initiatives to grow revenue, such as improving sales training, addressing sales territory requirements, maintaining and monitoring customer satisfaction with our solutions, and focusing on our strong value propositions. We typically have many such initiatives underway. If we are not successful in managing our various restructuring and re-engineering initiatives, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. In 2010, we completed the relocation of our world headquarters from Dayton, Ohio to Duluth, Georgia, USA and we continue to seek qualified candidates in Georgia to fill the remaining open positions and to transition responsibilities from departed NCR associates to new associates. In connection with these activities, we could experience business disruption due to a loss of historical knowledge and a lack of business continuity that could negatively affect our operating results. If we are not successful in managing our other initiatives and minimizing any resulting loss in productivity, our business and operating results similarly could be negatively impacted. If we do not attract and retain quality employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. Our employees are vital to our success. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, sales, consulting and other key personnel is critical, as these key employees are difficult to replace. If we are unable to attract or retain highly qualified employees by offering competitive compensation, secure work environments and leadership opportunities now and in the future, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. If we do not maintain effective internal controls, accounting policies, practices, and information systems necessary to ensure reliable reporting of our results, our ability to comply with our legal obligations could be negatively affected. Our internal controls, accounting policies and practices, and internal information systems enable us to capture and process transactions in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with applicable 14 Table of Contents accounting standards, laws and regulations, taxation requirements and federal securities laws and regulations. Our internal controls and policies are being closely monitored by management as we continue to implement a worldwide Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. While we believe these controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to ensure data integrity, unanticipated and unauthorized actions of employees or contractors (both domestic and international), temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight, or resource constraints, could lead to improprieties and undetected errors that could impact our financial condition, results of operations, or compliance with legal obligations. Moreover, while management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010 (as set forth in “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting” included in Item 9A of Part II of this Report), due to their inherent limitations, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial statements. Such limitations include, among other things, the potential for human error or circumvention of controls. Further, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of a failure to remediate control deficiencies, changes in conditions or a deterioration of the degree of compliance with established policies and procedures. Our ability to effectively manage our business could be negatively impacted if we do not invest in and maintain reliable information systems. It is periodically necessary to replace, upgrade or modify our internal information systems. If we are unable to replace, upgrade or modify such systems in a timely and cost-effective manner, especially in light of demands on our information technology resources, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and therefore, our financial condition, results of operations, or ability to comply with legal and regulatory reporting obligations, may be impacted. Acquisitions and Alliances. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions or effectively manage alliance activities, we may not drive future growth. As part of our overall solutions strategy, we intend to make investments in companies, products, services and technologies, either through acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances. Acquisitions and alliance activities inherently involve risks. The risks we may encounter include those associated with assimilating and integrating different business operations, corporate cultures, personnel, infrastructures and technologies or products acquired or licensed, and the potential for unknown liabilities within the acquired or combined business. Further, we make acquisitions and investments in order to acquire or obtain access to new technology or products that expand our offerings to new industry verticals, such as the entertainment industry. There is risk that the new technology or products may not perform as anticipated or that the new industry verticals may not meet estimated growth projections or expectations, in which case we may not be able to fully realize the benefit of our investments. An acquisition or alliance may also disrupt our ongoing business or we may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired products, services or technologies into our solutions and maintain quality. Further, we may not achieve the projected synergies once we have integrated the business into our operations, which may lead to additional costs not anticipated at the time of acquisition. Environmental. Our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Our facilities and operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, and we have investigatory and remedial activities underway at a number of facilities that we currently own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, to comply, or to determine compliance, with such laws. In addition, our products are subject to environmental laws in certain jurisdictions. Given the uncertainties inherent in such activities, there can be no assurances that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not impact future operating results. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with certain environmental matters, including the Fox River matter, as further described in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; in “Environmental Matters” within Item 1 of Part I of this Report; and in “Environmental and Legal Contingencies” within the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of the “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report, and we incorporate such disclosures by reference and make them a part of this discussion of risk factors. As described in more detail in such disclosures, we maintain an accrual for our potential liability relating to the Fox River matter that represents certain critical estimates and judgments made by us regarding our potential liability. NCR shares the future clean-up costs with Appleton Papers Inc. (API) based upon an agreement and an 15 Table of Contents arbitration award (along with API, B.A.T. Industries p.l.c. is jointly and severally liable to NCR under the same agreement and award; also, Arjo Wiggins Appleton Ltd. indemnifies API for the Fox River matter, and NCR benefits indirectly from that obligation). Additionally, AT&T and Alcatel-Lucent are responsible for indemnifying NCR for a portion of the amounts paid by NCR over a certain threshold. The ultimate costs associated with the Fox River matter, our share of those costs and any amounts received from insurers or those parties that owe an indemnification or cost-sharing obligation to NCR, including API, B.A.T. Industries p.l.c., Arjo Wiggins Appleton Ltd, AT&T and Alcatel/Lucent, are subject to a wide range of factors outside of our control, including such companies’ ability to pay on their obligations, which could impact our future operating results and the amount of the accrued liability. Contingencies. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including those that relate to the environment, health and safety, employee benefits, import/export compliance, intellectual property, data privacy, product liability, commercial disputes and other regulatory compliance and general matters. Because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, their outcomes are not predictable and we must make certain estimates and assumptions in our financial statements. While we believe that amounts provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements are currently adequate in light of the probable and estimable liabilities, there can be no assurances that the amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from such matters will not impact future operating results. Additionally, we are subject to diverse and complex laws and regulations, including those relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and reporting, environmental safety and the discharge of materials into the environment, product safety, import and export compliance, data privacy and security, antitrust and competition, government contracting and anti-corruption, and labor and human resources, which are rapidly changing and subject to many possible changes in the future. Compliance with these laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, and federal securities laws among others, may create a substantial burden on, and substantially increase costs to our organization or could have an impact on our future operating results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 