Item 1A. RISK FACTORSThe risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections, and could cause the market value of our stock to decline. You should consider these risk factors when reading the rest of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Economic Pressures. Our business may be negatively affected by global economic and credit conditions. Our business is sensitive to the strength of domestic and global economic and credit conditions. The strength of global economic and credit conditions depends on a number of factors, including consumer confidence, unemployment levels, interest rates and the effects of government actions to address sovereign debt issues, improve global credit markets and generally stimulate economic growth. Recent sovereign debt crises in Europe and elsewhere, slower growth in the emerging markets, and the uneven global economic recovery, among other things, have created a challenging and unpredictable environment in which to market the products and services of our various businesses across different geographies. A negative economic climate could create financial pressures that impact the ability or willingness of our customers to make capital expenditures, thereby affecting their ability to purchase our products or services, or especially with respect to smaller customers, to pay accounts receivable owed to NCR. Additionally, if customers respond to a negative economic climate by consolidation, such as has occurred in the financial services sector in the recent past, it could reduce our base of potential customers. Negative global economic conditions also may have a material effect on our customers’ ability to obtain financing for the purchase of our products and services from third party financing companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. Indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities, and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $3,354 million of total indebtedness outstanding. Additionally, at December 31, 2013, we had approximately $828 million of secured debt available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility. This level of indebtedness could:•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding senior unsecured notes, including our change in control repurchase obligations; •limit our ability to borrow additional money if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, on satisfactory terms or at all; •limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; •place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing; •make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and •make us more susceptible to changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. If compliance with our debt obligations, including those under our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes, materially limits our financial or operating activities, or hinders our ability to adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be negatively affected. 11Table of ContentsThe terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, restrict or limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•create liens on, sell or otherwise dispose of, our assets;•engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities;•make certain material acquisitions;•engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions;•repurchase our common stock, pay dividends or make similar distributions on our capital stock;•repay certain indebtedness;•engage in certain affiliate transactions; and•enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments.The senior secured credit facility and the indentures also contain certain affirmative covenants, and the senior secured credit facility requires us to comply with financial coverage ratios regarding both our interest expense and our debt relative to our Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit facility).These covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business, and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns.If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under these agreements and under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions. Upon an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, refuse to lend additional amounts to us, and require deposit of cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit. If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the lenders could, among other things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes certain of our domestic assets and the equity interests of certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Upon an event of default under the indentures, the trustee or holders of our senior unsecured notes could declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable.In connection with the December 2013 issuances of our 5.875% and 6.375% senior unsecured notes, we also entered into registration rights agreements that require us to file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange each series of notes for a new issue of our debt securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with terms substantially identical to such series of notes (except for the provisions relating to the transfer restrictions and payment of additional interest). If we fail to satisfy our exchange obligations under the registration rights agreements by October 15, 2014, we will be required to pay additional interest to the holders of the notes of the applicable series under certain circumstances.Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful. Our ability to make timely payments of principal and interest on our debt obligations under our senior secured credit facility and senior unsecured notes depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, which is subject to general economic conditions, competitive pressures and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to make these payments, we may be required to seek additional financing sources, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to take any of these actions, and, even if successful, these actions may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our outstanding indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the outstanding principal and interest on our debt could be declared to be due and payable, in which case we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. 12Table of ContentsDespite our current levels of debt, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and similar liabilities, which would increase the risks described herein. The agreements relating to our debt, including our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, limit but do not prohibit our ability to incur additional debt, and the amount of debt that we could incur could be substantial. In addition, certain types of liabilities are not considered “Indebtedness” under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, and the senior secured credit facility and indentures do not impose any limitation on the amount of liabilities incurred by the subsidiaries, if any, that might be designated as “unrestricted subsidiaries” (as defined in the indentures). Accordingly, we could incur significant additional debt or similar liabilities in the future, including additional debt under our senior secured credit facility, some of which could constitute secured debt. In addition, if we form or acquire any subsidiaries in the future, those subsidiaries also could incur debt or similar liabilities. If new debt or similar liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest at a variable rate, which subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. All of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on this variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. We are party to an interest rate swap agreement that fixes the interest rate, based on LIBOR, on a portion of our LIBOR-indexed floating rate borrowings through August 22, 2016, with a notional amount of $518 million as of December 31, 2013 that amortizes to $341 million over the term of the agreement. Although we may enter into additional interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps will be effective.We may also enter into interest rate swaps in the future in connection with our senior unsecured notes. This would expose us to interest rate risk, which could increase our debt service obligations.We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to finance a required change in control purchase of our senior unsecured notes. Upon the occurrence of a change in control under the applicable indenture governing the applicable senior unsecured notes, holders of those notes may require us to purchase their notes. However, it is possible that we would not have sufficient funds at that time to make the required purchase of notes. We cannot assure the holders of the senior unsecured notes that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the repurchase price in cash with respect to any such notes tendered by holders for repurchase upon a change in control. Our failure to repurchase the senior unsecured notes of a series when required would result in an event of default with respect to such notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any. In addition, a change in control may constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit facility that would permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the borrowings thereunder and would require us to make a similar change in control offer to holders of our existing senior unsecured notes.Important corporate events may not constitute a change in control under the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a change in control under the indentures. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Any rating assigned to our debt could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. Competition. If we do not compete effectively within the technology industry, we will not be successful. We operate in the intensely competitive information technology industry. This industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, price and cost reductions, and increasingly greater commoditization of products, making differentiation difficult. Our competitors include other large companies in the information technology industry, such as: IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Diebold, Wincor, Hyosung, ToshibaTec, Micros, Fujitsu and Unisys, some of which have more financial and technical resources, or more widespread distribution and market penetration for their platforms and service offerings, than we do. In addition, we compete with companies in specific industry segments, such as entry-level ATMs, imaging solutions, and business consumables and media products. Our future competitive performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: 13Table of Contents•react to competitive product and pricing pressures (particularly in the ATM marketplace);•penetrate and meet the changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets, such as India, China, Brazil and Russia;•exploit opportunities in emerging vertical markets, such as travel and telecommunications and technology;•cross-sell additional products and services to our existing customer base, including customers gained from our recent acquisitions;•rapidly and continually design, develop and market, or otherwise maintain and introduce innovative solutions and related products and services for our customers that are competitive in the marketplace;•react on a timely basis to shifts in market demands;•compete in reverse auctions for new and continuing business;•reduce costs without creating operating inefficiencies or impairing product or service quality;•maintain competitive operating margins;•improve product and service delivery quality; and•effectively market and sell all of our diverse solutions.Our business and operating performance also could be impacted by external competitive pressures, such as increasing price erosion and the entry of new competitors into our existing product and geographic markets. In addition, our customers sometimes finance our product sales through third-party financing companies, and in the case of customer default, these financing companies may be forced to resell this equipment at discounted prices, competing with NCR and impacting our ability to sell incremental units. The impact of these product and pricing pressures could include lower customer satisfaction, decreased demand for our solutions, loss of market share and reduction of operating profits. Business Model. If we are unsuccessful in transforming our business model, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In recent years, we have begun to shift our business model to focus increasingly on sales of higher margin software and SaaS, and professional, managed and other services. Our ability to successfully grow our software and services businesses depends on a number of different factors, including market acceptance of our software solutions; integrating, developing and supporting software gained through recent acquisitions; enabling our sales force to use a consultative selling model that better incorporates our comprehensive and new solutions; and the expansion of our services capabilities and geographic coverage, among others. In addition, development of these businesses may require increased capital and research and development expenses and resource allocation, and while we will seek to have the right level of investment and the right level of resources focused on these opportunities, these costs may reduce our gross margins and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. In addition, we are pursuing initiatives to expand our customer base by increasing our use of an indirect sales channel, and by developing, marketing and selling solutions aimed at the small- to medium-business market. It is not yet certain whether these initiatives will yield the anticipated benefits, or whether our solutions will be compelling and attractive to small and medium-sized businesses. If we are not successful in growing our software and services businesses and expanding our customer base at the rate that we anticipate, we may not meet our growth and gross margin projections or expectations, and operating results could be negatively impacted.Product Defects and Errors. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and negatively impact our business. Many of our products are sophisticated and complex, and despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that defects or errors will not be found in current versions or new versions of our products. If our products contain undetected defects or errors, or otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations, we could face the loss of customers and additional development costs. If defects or errors delay product installation or make it more difficult, we could experience delays in customer acceptance, or if our products require significant amounts of customer support, it could result in incremental costs to NCR. In addition, our customers may license and deploy our software in both standard and non-standard configurations in different environments with different computer platforms, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may increase the likelihood of technical difficulties. Our products may be integrated with other components or software, and, in the event that there are defects or errors, it may be difficult to determine the origin of such defects or errors. Additionally, damage to or failure of any significant aspect of our SaaS hosting facilities could interrupt the availability of our SaaS offerings, which could cause disruption for our customers and expose us to liability. If any of these risks materialize, they could result in additional costs and expenses, exposure to liability claims, diversion of technical and other resources to engage in remediation efforts, loss of customers or negative publicity, each of which could impact our business and operating results. 14Table of ContentsOperating Results Fluctuations. Our revenue, operating results, and margins could fluctuate for a number of reasons, including those described below: Manufacturing. We manufacture advanced ATMs in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA; Manaus, Brazil; Budapest, Hungary; Beijing, China; and Puducherry, India. Our self-checkout solutions are manufactured in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA and Budapest, Hungary. Our financial kiosk solutions are manufactured in facilities located in Beijing, China. Our POS/Display terminals are manufactured in facilities located in Columbus, Georgia, USA; Beijing, China; and Adelaide, Australia, and certain hand-held solutions are manufactured in Salzburg, Austria. If we develop or experience problems relating to product quality or on-time delivery to customers that we are unable to quickly manage and resolve, whether due to the geographical diversity of our manufacturing base or otherwise, we could experience business interruption that could negatively impact our business and operating results. Seasonality. Our sales are historically seasonal, with lower revenue in the first quarter and higher revenue in the fourth quarter of each year. Such seasonality also causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on the variability in the volume, timing and mix of product sales. In addition, revenue in the third month of each quarter is typically higher than in the first and second months. These factors, among other things, may adversely affect our ability to manage working capital, make our forecasting process more difficult and impact our ability to predict financial results accurately. Foreign Currency. Our revenue and operating income are subject to variability due to the effects of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar. We have exposure to approximately 50 functional currencies. We endeavor to mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations by our hedging strategy; however, certain significant currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, including sales and gross margins. Cost/Expense Reductions. Our success in achieving targeted cost and expense reductions through our continuous improvement and other similar programs depends on a number of factors, including our ability to achieve infrastructure rationalizations, drive lower component and product development costs, improve supply chain efficiencies and optimize the efficiency of our customer services and professional services consulting resources. If we do not successfully execute on our cost and expense reduction initiatives or if we experience delays in completing the implementation of these initiatives, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Contractual Obligations for Professional Services. Our contracts for professional services consulting work, may contemplate that services will be performed over multiple periods. Our profitability under those contracts is largely a function of performing our contractual obligations within the estimated costs and time periods specified. If we exceed these estimated costs or cannot otherwise complete the contracted services within the specified periods, our profitability related to these contracts could be negatively impacted. In addition, if we are unable to maintain appropriate utilization rates for our consultants, we may not be able to sustain profitability on these contracts. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Alliances. As part of our strategy, we expect to selectively acquire and divest technologies, products and businesses, either through acquisitions, investments, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or divestitures. As these acquisitions, divestitures and alliances occur and we begin to include or exclude, as the case may be, the financial results related to these transactions our operating results could fluctuate materially, depending on the size and nature of the transactions. In addition, our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to properly integrate acquisitions or if investments or alliances do not perform up to, or meet, our original expectations. Underfunded Pension Obligation. At December 31, 2013, our obligation for benefits under our pension plans was $5,145 million and our pension plan assets totaled $5,056 million, which resulted in an underfunded pension obligation of $89 million. While we recently rebalanced our US and international plan assets in order to reduce volatility and made several discretionary contributions to our pension plans, our remaining underfunded pension obligation continues to require significant cash contributions. In addition, certain of the plan assets remain subject to financial market risk, and our actuarial and other assumptions underlying our expected future benefit payments, long-term expected rate of return and future funding expectations for our plans depend on, among other things, interest rate levels and trends and capital market expectations. Further volatility in the performance of financial markets, changes in any of these actuarial assumptions (including those described in our “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of the “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report) or changes in regulations regarding funding requirements could require material increases to our expected cash contributions to our pension plans in future years. Our financial position and liquidity could be materially impacted by these contributions. 15Table of ContentsSee the “Effects of Pension, Postemployment and Postretirement Benefit Plans” and “Financial Condition, Liquidity And Capital Resources” sections of the “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report and Note 9, "Employee Benefit Plans" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further information regarding the funded status of our pension plans and potential future cash contributions.Stock-based Compensation. Similar to other companies, we use stock awards as a form of compensation for certain employees and non-employee directors. All stock-based awards are required to be recognized in our financial statements based on their fair values. The amount recognized for stock compensation expense could vary depending on a number of assumptions or changes that may occur. For example, assumptions such as the risk-free rate, expected holding period and expected volatility that drive our valuation model could change. Other examples that could have an impact include changes in the mix and type of awards, changes in our compensation plans or tax rate, changes in our forfeiture rate, differences in actual results compared to management’s estimates for performance-based awards or an unusually high amount of expirations of stock awards. Income Taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Our deferred tax assets totaled approximately $804 million and $839 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates, if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, or if the tax laws change unfavorably, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate. Additionally, we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions both in the U.S. and internationally, the outcomes of which could result in the assessment of additional taxes. Our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, the changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations, and management’s assessment in regards to repatriation of earnings. Multinational Operations. Our multinational operations, including our expansion into new and emerging markets, expose us to business and legal risks. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the percentage of our revenues from outside of the United States was 61% and 62%, respectively, and we expect our percentage of revenues generated outside the United States to continue to be significant. In addition, we continue to seek to further penetrate existing international markets, and to identify opportunities to enter into or expand our presence in developing and emerging markets, including Brazil, Russia, China, India, Africa, and the Middle East, among others. While we believe that our geographic diversity may help to mitigate some risks associated with geographic concentrations of operations (e.g., adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, deteriorating economic environments or business disruptions due to economic or political uncertainties), our ability to manufacture and sell our solutions internationally, including in new and emerging markets, is subject to risks, which include, among others: 16Table of Contents•the impact of ongoing and future sovereign debt, economic and credit conditions on the stability of national and regional economies;•political conditions and local regulations that could adversely affect demand for our solutions, or our ability to access funds and resources, in these markets;•the impact of a downturn in the global economy, or in regional economies, on demand for our products;•currency exchange rate fluctuations that could result in lower demand for our products as well as generate currency translation losses;•changes to and compliance with a variety of laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent us from effectively competing internationally;•government uncertainty, including as a result of new, or changes to, laws and regulations;•the institution of, or changes to, trade protection measures, currency restrictions, and import or export licensing requirements;•the successful implementation and use of systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in foreign markets;•changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets;•work stoppages and other labor conditions or issues;•disruptions in transportation and shipping infrastructure; and•the impact of civil unrest relating to war and terrorist activity on the economy or markets in general, or on our ability, or that of our suppliers, to meet commitments.In addition, as a result of our revenues generated outside of the United States, the amount of cash and cash equivalents that is held by our foreign subsidiaries continues to be significant. If these cash and cash equivalents are distributed to the United States, whether in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. Any such taxes would reduce the amount of such cash and cash equivalents that are available for our use.Acquisitions and Alliances. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions or effectively manage alliance activities, we may not drive future growth. As part of our overall solutions strategy, we have made, and intend to continue to make, investments in companies, products, services and technologies, either through acquisitions (such as our acquisitions of Digital Insight Corporation and Retalix, Ltd.), investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances. Acquisitions and alliance activities inherently involve risks. The risks we may encounter include those associated with:•assimilating and integrating different business operations, corporate cultures, personnel, infrastructures and technologies or products acquired or licensed;•the potential for unknown liabilities within the acquired or combined business; and•the possibility of conflict with joint venture or alliance partners regarding strategic direction, prioritization of objectives and goals, governance matters or operations.Further, we may make acquisitions and investments in order to acquire or obtain access to new technology or products that expand our offerings. There is risk that the new technology or products may not perform as anticipated and may not meet estimated growth projections or expectations, or investment recipients may not successfully execute their business plans. There is also risk that key employees of an acquired business may not remain with the acquired business as long as expected. In the event that these risks materialize, we may not be able to fully realize the benefit of our investments. An acquisition or alliance, and the integration of an acquired business, may also disrupt our ongoing business or we may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired products, services or technologies into our solutions and maintain quality. Further, we may not achieve the projected synergies once we have integrated the business into our operations, which may lead to additional costs not anticipated at the time of acquisition. 17Table of ContentsData Privacy and Security. Breaches to our systems or products that compromise the security and integrity of personally identifiable information could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Certain of our products and services are used by our customers to store and transmit personally identifiable information of their customers. We also offer SaaS solutions that include the hosting of customer data on our networks. In addition to customer data, we also maintain personal information about our employees. This information is subject to a variety of laws, regulations and industry standards governing its collection, use, disclosure and disposal, which are continually evolving and which may not be consistent across all of the jurisdictions in which we do business. Vulnerabilities in the security of our products and services, whether relating to hardware, software or otherwise, could compromise the confidentiality of, or result in unauthorized access to or the loss of, information transmitted or stored using our products or solutions, or impact the availability of our SaaS offerings. Additionally, vulnerabilities in the security of our own internal systems could compromise the confidentiality of, or result in unauthorized access to, personal information of our employees. If we do not maintain the security and integrity of personally identifiable information in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, we could lose customers and be exposed to claims, costs and reputational harm that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are required to implement additional or different data protection measures, the associated costs could be significant. Introduction of New Solutions. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing environment in which we do business, our business results will be impacted. The development process for our solutions requires high levels of innovation from our product development teams and suppliers of the components embedded or incorporated in our solutions. In addition, certain of our solutions, including our SaaS solutions, may require us to build or expand, and maintain, infrastructure to support them. The development process also can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources to bring our business solutions to market. If we are unable to anticipate our customers’ needs and technological and industry trends accurately, or are otherwise unable to complete development efficiently, we would be unable to introduce new solutions into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results could be impacted. Likewise, we sometimes make assurances to customers regarding the operability and specifications of new technologies, and our results could be impacted if we are unable to deliver such technologies, or if such technologies do not perform as planned. Once we have developed new solutions, if we cannot successfully market and sell those solutions, our business and operating results could be impacted.Reliance on Third Parties. If third-party suppliers upon which we rely are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to bring our products to market in a timely fashion could be affected. In most cases, there are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize in or in connection with our products. However, there are some services and components that are licensed or purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology, functionality or other reasons. For example, we depend on transaction processing services from Accenture, computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. Certain parts and components used in the manufacturing of our ATMs and the delivery of many of our retail solutions are also supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses that provide us with critical products for our solutions. If we were unable to secure the necessary services, including contract manufacturing, parts, software, components or products from a particular vendor, and we had to find an alternative supplier, our new and existing product shipments and solution deliveries, or the provision of contracted services, could be delayed, impacting our business and operating results. We have, from time to time, formed alliances with third parties that have complementary products, software, services and skills. These alliances represent many different types of relationships, such as outsourcing arrangements to manufacture hardware and subcontract agreements with third parties to perform services and provide products and software to our customers in connection with our solutions. For example, we rely on third parties for cash replenishment services for our ATM products. These alliances introduce risks that we cannot control, such as nonperformance by third parties and difficulties with or delays in integrating elements provided by third parties into our solutions. Lack of information technology infrastructure, shortages in business capitalization, and manual processes and data integrity issues of smaller suppliers can also create product time delays, inventory and invoicing problems, staging delays, as well as other operating issues. The failure of third parties to provide high-quality products or services that conform to required specifications or contractual arrangements could impair the delivery of our solutions on a timely basis, create exposure for non-compliance with our contractual commitments to our customers and impact our business and operating results. Also, some of these third parties have access to confidential NCR and customer data, the integrity and security of which are of significant importance to the Company. 18Table of ContentsIntellectual Property. Our continuing ability to be a leading technology and services solutions provider could be negatively affected if we do not develop and protect intellectual property that drives innovation. It is critical to our continued development of leading technologies that we are able to protect and enhance our proprietary rights in our intellectual property through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. These efforts include protection of the products and the application, diagnostic and other software we develop. To the extent we are not successful in protecting our proprietary rights, our business could be adversely impacted. Also, many of our offerings rely on technologies developed by others, and if we are unable to continue to obtain licenses for such technologies, our business could be adversely impacted. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent and other intellectual property claims. Whether such claims have merit, they may require significant resources to defend. If an infringement claim is successful and we are required to pay damages, or we are unable to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business could be adversely affected. Work Environment. Our continuous improvement, customer experience and cost reduction initiatives could negatively impact productivity and business results. As part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure, from time to time, we shift and realign our internal organizational structure and resources, which could temporarily result in reduced productivity levels. In addition to our initiatives to reduce costs and expenses, we have initiatives to grow revenue, drive innovation and improve the experience of our customers. We typically have many such initiatives underway. If we are not successful in implementing and managing these various initiatives and minimizing any resulting loss in productivity, we may not be able to achieve targeted cost savings or productivity gains, and our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. If we do not attract and retain quality employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. Our employees are vital to our success, including the successful reinvention to a hardware-enabled, software driven business. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, sales, consulting and other key personnel, including key personnel of acquired businesses, is critical, as these key employees are difficult to replace. If we are unable to attract or retain highly qualified employees by offering competitive compensation, secure work environments and leadership opportunities now and in the future, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. Our ability to effectively manage our business could be negatively impacted if we do not invest in and maintain reliable technology infrastructure and information systems. It is periodically necessary to add to, replace, upgrade or modify our technology infrastructure and internal information systems. If we are unable to expand, replace, upgrade or modify such systems in a timely and cost-effective manner, especially in light of demands on our information technology resources, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and therefore, our financial condition, results of operations, or ability to comply with legal and regulatory reporting obligations, may be impacted.Internal Controls. If we do not maintain effective internal controls, accounting policies, practices, and information systems necessary to ensure reliable reporting of our results, our ability to comply with our legal obligations could be negatively affected. Our internal controls, accounting policies and practices, and internal information systems enable us to capture and process transactions in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with applicable accounting standards, laws and regulations, taxation requirements and federal securities laws and regulations. Our internal controls and policies are being closely monitored by management as we continue to implement a worldwide Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. While we believe these controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to ensure data integrity, unanticipated and unauthorized actions of employees or contractors (both domestic and international), temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight, or resource constraints, could lead to improprieties and undetected errors that could impact our financial condition, results of operations, or compliance with legal obligations. Moreover, while management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013 (as set forth in “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting” included in Item 9A of Part II of this Report), due to their inherent limitations, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial statements. Such limitations include, among other things, the potential for human error or circumvention of controls. Further, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of a failure to remediate control deficiencies, changes in conditions or a deterioration of the degree of compliance with established policies and procedures. 19Table of ContentsEnvironmental. Our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Our facilities and operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, and we have investigatory and remedial activities underway at a number of facilities that we currently own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, to comply, or to determine compliance, with such laws. In addition, our products are subject to environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions. Given the uncertainties inherent in such activities, there can be no assurances that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not impact future operating results. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with certain environmental matters, including the Fox River and Kalamazoo River matters, as further described in Note 10, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; in “Environmental Matters” within Item 1 of Part I of this Report; and in “Environmental and Legal Contingencies” within the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report, and we incorporate such disclosures by reference and make them a part of this discussion of risk factors. Sale of Entertainment. The sale of assets of our entertainment business may expose us to certain post-closing liabilities. On February 3, 2012, we entered into an agreement to sell certain assets of our entertainment line of business to Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (Redbox). Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, as amended on June 22, 2012, and upon the terms and conditions thereof, on June 22, 2012, we completed the disposition of our entertainment line of business to Redbox for cash consideration of $100 million. We remain responsible for pre-closing liabilities of the entertainment business, and are subject to certain indemnification obligations in favor of Redbox for, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties and covenants under the purchase agreement. In addition, we may be subject to liabilities and obligations under and with respect to contracts and assets of the entertainment business that were not transferred to or assumed by Redbox.Contingencies. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including, for example, those that relate to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, employee benefits, import/export compliance, intellectual property, data privacy and security, product liability, commercial disputes and regulatory compliance, among others. Because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, their outcomes are not predictable and we must make certain estimates and assumptions in our financial statements. While we believe that amounts provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to such matters are currently adequate in light of the probable and estimable liabilities, there can be no assurances that the amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from such matters will not impact future operating results. Additionally, we are subject to diverse and complex laws and regulations, including those relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and reporting, environmental safety and the discharge of materials into the environment, product safety, import and export compliance, data privacy and security, antitrust and competition, government contracting, anti-corruption, and labor and human resources, which are rapidly changing and subject to many possible changes in the future. Compliance with these laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, and federal securities laws among others, may create a substantial burden on us, and substantially increase costs to our organization or could have an impact on our future operating results. Additionally, doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. For example, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies or agents acting on behalf of such companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Our international operations are also subject to economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. If we are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, which may cause harm to our reputation and to our brand and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 10, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for information regarding our FCPA and OFAC investigations, which disclosures are incorporated by reference and made a part of this discussion of risk factors. 20Table of ContentsItem 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 