ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Form 10-K and our other SEC filings before deciding whether to purchase shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and operating results could be harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We are highly dependent on achieving success in the clinical testing, regulatory approval, and commercialization of ONCONASE® and our other compounds currently under development. If we fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be allowed to commercialize ONCONASE® and our business would be harmed. The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial pre-market approval requirements on the introduction of pharmaceutical products. These requirements involve completion of lengthy and detailed pre-clinical and clinical testing and other costly and time consuming procedures. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes several years depending on the level of complexity and novelty of the product. The length of time required to complete a clinical trial depends on several factors including the size of the patient population, the ability of patients to get to the site of the clinical study, and the criteria for determining which patients are eligible to join the study. A significant portion of our expenditures have been devoted, and in the future will be devoted, to the clinical trials for our lead product candidate, ONCONASE® and related NDA activities. Although we believe we could modify some of our expenditures to reduce our cash outlays in relation to our clinical trials and other NDA related expenditures, we cannot quantify the amount by which such expenditures might be modified. Hence, a delay in the commercial sale of ONCONASE® would increase the time frame of our cash expenditure outflows and may require us to seek additional financing. Such capital financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We are nearing the scheduled completion of our confirmatory Phase IIIb clinical trial of ONCONASE® as a treatment for malignant mesothelioma. Data from an interim analysis based on the first 105 events (deaths) showed a two-month survival advantage of ONCONASE® + doxorubicin (12 months) vs. doxorubicin (10 months). These 16 results were consistent with data from the previous Phase III clinical trial and were the basis for our decision to continue the trial. The primary endpoint of the Phase IIIb clinical trial is survival, which tracks the length of time patients enrolled in the study live. According to the protocol, a sufficient number of evaluable patient deaths must occur in order to perform the required statistical analyses to determine the efficacy of ONCONASE® in patients with unresectable (inoperable) malignant mesothelioma. Since it is impossible to predict with certainty when these patient deaths in the Phase IIIb trial will occur, we can neither determine with certainty when a sufficient number of deaths will occur, nor when we will be able to file for marketing registrations with the FDA, EMEA and TGA. We cannot apply for FDA, EMEA or TGA approval to market ONCONASE® until the clinical trials and all other registration requirements have been met. Several factors could prevent the successful completion or cause significant delays of these trials including an inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients or failure to demonstrate that the product is safe and effective in humans. Also if safety concerns develop, the FDA, EMEA and TGA could stop our trials before completion. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy results despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. While previous limited clinical trials with ONCONASE® have produced certain favorable results in unresectable malignant mesothelioma, we cannot be certain that we will successfully complete Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing of any compound within any specific time period, if at all. Furthermore, we or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All statutes and regulations governing the conduct of clinical trials are subject to future changes by various regulatory agencies, including the FDA, which could affect the cost and duration of our clinical trials. Any unanticipated costs or delays in our clinical studies would delay our ability to generate product revenues and to raise additional capital and could cause us to be unable to fund the completion of the studies. We may not market or sell any product for which we have not obtained regulatory approval. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will ever approve the use of our products that are under development. Even if we receive regulatory approval, such approval may involve limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market our products. Further, even after approval, discovery of previously unknown problems could result in additional restrictions, including withdrawal of our products from the market. If we fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, we cannot market or sell our products in the United States, or in other countries and our long-term viability would be threatened. If we fail to achieve regulatory approval or foreign marketing authorizations for ONCONASE® we will not have a saleable product or product revenues for quite some time, if at all, and may not be able to continue operations. Our profitability will depend on our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for, and effectively market ONCONASE® as well as entering into strategic alliances for the development of new drug candidates from the out-licensing of our proprietary RNase technology. The commercialization of our pharmaceutical products involves a number of significant challenges. In particular, our ability to commercialize ONCONASE® depends on the success of our clinical development programs, our efforts to obtain regulatory approval and our sales and marketing efforts or those of our marketing partners, if any, directed at physicians, patients and third-party payors. A number of factors could affect these efforts including: • Our ability to demonstrate clinically that our products have utility and are safe; • Delays or refusals by regulatory authorities in granting marketing approvals; • Our limited financial resources relative to our competitors; • Our ability to obtain an appropriate marketing partner; • The availability and level of reimbursement for our products by third party payors; • Incidents of adverse reactions to our products; • Misuse of our products and unfavorable publicity that could result; and • The occurrence of manufacturing or distribution disruptions. 17 We will seek to generate revenue through licensing, marketing and development arrangements prior to receiving revenue from the sale of our products. To date we have entered into two non-US regional marketing and distribution agreements and we may not be able to successfully negotiate any additional agreements. In the past, we have entered into several development arrangements which have resulted in limited revenues for us. However, we cannot ensure that these arrangements or future arrangements, if any, will result in significant amounts of revenue for us in the future. We, therefore, are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or the time required to achieve profitability, if at all. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We do not have a current source of product revenue and may never be profitable. We are a development stage company and since our inception one of the principal sources of our working capital has been private sales of our common stock. Over the past three fiscal years, we have incurred aggregate net losses of approximately $23 million and since our inception we have incurred aggregate net losses of approximately $92 million. We expect to incur additional losses and, as our development efforts and clinical testing activities continue, our rate of losses may increase. We also expect to experience negative cash flows for the foreseeable future as we fund our losses and capital expenditures. Our losses have adversely impacted, and will continue to adversely impact, our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. To date, we have not sold or received approval to sell any drug product candidates, and it is possible that revenues from drug product sales will never be achieved. We cannot at this time predict when or if we will be able to develop other sources of revenue or when or if our operations will become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize some of our drug product candidates. We will need additional financing to continue operations, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if it is available at all. We estimate that as of July 31, 2007, our then existing cash reserves should be sufficient to support our activities into the first quarter of our fiscal year 2009 based on our expected level of expenditures, which assumes timely and successful completion of our Phase IIIb clinical trial, and submission and approval of the related NDA. Regardless of the results from our current clinical trial, we will need additional financing to conduct our business after October 31, 2008. If the result of our Phase IIIb clinical trial do not demonstrate the efficacy and safety of ONCONASE® for malignant mesothelioma, or if we are delayed in submitting the related NDA, our ability to raise additional capital could be adversely affected. Factors that would affect the amount and timing of additional capital required include, but are not limited to, the following: • the rate of progress and cost of completing and filing marketing registrations for ONCONASE® with the FDA in the United States, with the EMEA in Europe and with the TGA in Australia; • our degree of success in commercializing our drug product candidates, including entering into additional marketing and distribution agreements; • the rate of progress and cost of research and development and clinical trial activities relating to our drug product candidates; • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our patent claims and other intellectual property rights and investigating and defending against infringement claims asserted against us by others; • emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; • changes in or terminations of our existing licensing, marketing and distribution arrangements; • the amount of milestone payments we may receive from current and future collaborators, if any; and • the cost of manufacturing scale-up and development of marketing operations, if we undertake those activities. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or be on terms acceptable to us. If adequate financing is not available, we may be required to delay, scale-back, or eliminate certain of our research and development programs, to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or products, or to grant licenses to third parties to 18 commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to develop ourselves. We could also be required to cease operations. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, our stockholders’ ownership interest could be diluted and such newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges superior to those of our other stockholders. The terms of any debt securities we may sell to raise additional capital may place restrictions on our operating activities. Failure to secure additional financing may cause us to delay or abandon some or all of our development programs. Budget constraints may force us to delay our efforts to develop certain drug product candidates in favor of developing others, which may prevent us from commercializing all drug product candidates as quickly as possible. Because we are an emerging company with limited resources, and because completing and submitting an NDA is an expensive process, we must regularly assess the most efficient allocation of our research and development budget. As a result, we may have to further prioritize development activities and may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our drug product candidates in a timely manner, and they may be delayed in reaching the market, if at all. A reduction in spending on our other drug product candidates could delay our commercialization efforts and negatively impact our ability to diversify our development risk across a broad portfolio of drug product candidates. Competition in the biopharmaceutical field is intense and subject to rapid technological change. Our principal competitors have substantially greater resources to develop and market products that may be superior to ours. If we obtain regulatory approval for any of our drug product candidates, the extent to which they achieve market acceptance will depend, in part, on competitive factors. Competition in our industry is intense, and it is increased by the rapid pace of technological development. Existing drug products or new drug products developed by our competitors may be more effective or have fewer side effects, or may be more effectively marketed and sold, than any that we may develop. Our principal competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing, financial, and managerial resources than we do. Competitive drug compounds may render our technology and drug product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive prior to our recovery of research, development, or commercialization expenses incurred through sales of any of our drug product candidates. The FDA’s policy of granting “fast track” approval for cancer therapies may also expedite the regulatory approval of our competitors’ drug product candidates. In February 2004, the Food and Drug Administration granted Eli Lilly & Company approval to sell its Alimta® medication as an orphan drug to treat patients with pleural mesothelioma. Alimta® is a multi-targeted antifolate that is based upon a different mechanism of action than ONCONASE®. To our knowledge, no other company is developing a product with the same mechanism of action as ONCONASE®. However, there may be other companies, universities, research teams or scientists who are developing products to treat the same medical conditions our products are intended to treat. To our knowledge, only one other drug is in a Phase III trial for the treatment of mesothelioma. The drug, Merck & Co.’s Zolinza (vorinostat), is currently in Phase III clinical trials for relapsed mesothelioma and advanced malignant pleural mesothelioma. We also compete with other drug development companies for collaborations with large pharmaceutical and other companies. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could decline in value. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other development stage biotechnology companies, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. Over the past three fiscal years, the sale price for our common stock, as reported by Nasdaq and the OTC Bulletin Board has fluctuated from a low of $.73 to a high of $7.50. The market price of our common stock could be impacted by a variety of factors, including: 19 • the success or failure of our clinical trials, including, but not limited to, the Phase IIIb trial involving our lead compound, ONCONASE®, or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new drug products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; • our ability to obtain financing, when needed; • economic conditions in the US and abroad; • comments by or changes in Company assessments or financial estimates by securities analysts; • adverse regulatory actions or decisions; • losses of key management; • changing governmental regulations; • our ability to secure adequate third party reimbursement for products developed by us; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • product or patent litigation; and • public concern as to the safety of products developed by us. The stock market continues to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations and these fluctuations have especially affected the market price of many biotechnology companies. Such fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. These factors and fluctuations, as well as political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, from April 1999, when we were delisted from Nasdaq, until September 9, 2004, when we were relisted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, there was no established trading market for our common stock. During that time, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and was thinly traded. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with all of the listing requirements necessary to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, our stock remains thinly traded at times and you may be unable to sell our common stock during times when the trading market is limited. We are and will be dependent upon third parties for manufacturing our products. If these third parties do not devote sufficient time and resources to our products our revenues and profits may be adversely affected. We do not have the required manufacturing facilities to manufacture our product. We presently rely on third parties to perform all of the manufacturing processes for the production of ONCONASE® for use in clinical trials. Currently, we contract with Scientific Protein Laboratories, LLC for the manufacturing of ranpirnase (protein drug substance) from the oocytes, or the unfertilized eggs, of the Rana pipiens frog, which is found in the Northwest United States and is commonly called the leopard frog. We contract with Ben Venue Corporation for the manufacturing of ONCONASE® and with Catalent and Aptuit for the labeling, storage and shipping of ONCONASE® for clinical trial use. We utilize the services of these third party manufacturers solely on an as needed basis with terms and prices customary for our industry. We use FDA GMP licensed manufacturers for ranpirnase and ONCONASE®. We have identified several alternative service providers for the manufacturing services for which we may contract. In order to replace an existing service provider we must amend our IND to notify the FDA of the new manufacturer. Although the FDA generally will not suspend or delay a clinical trial as a result of replacing an existing manufacturer, the FDA has the authority to suspend or delay a clinical trial if, among other grounds, human subjects are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury as a result of the replacement manufacturer. We intend to rely on third parties to manufacture our products if they are approved for sale by the appropriate regulatory agencies and are commercialized. Third party manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs with respect to the timing, quantity or quality of our products or to supply products on acceptable terms. 20 Because we do not have marketing, sales or distribution capabilities, we expect to contract with third parties for these functions and we will therefore be dependent upon such third parties to market, sell and distribute our products in order for us to generate revenues. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize any product candidates for which we receive FDA or non-US approval, we expect to rely on established third party strategic partners to perform these functions. To date, we have entered into two marketing and distribution agreements for ONCONASE® in regions outside the US. We cannot assure you we will be able to maintain these relationships or establish new relationships with biopharmaceutical or other marketing companies with existing distribution systems and direct sales forces to market any or all of our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we expect to begin to incur significant expenses in determining our commercialization strategy with respect to one or more of our product candidates. The determination of our commercialization strategy with respect to a product candidate will depend on a number of factors, including: • the extent to which we are successful in securing collaborative partners to offset some or all of the funding obligations with respect to product candidates; • the extent to which our agreement with our collaborators permits us to exercise marketing or promotion rights with respect to the product candidate; • how our product candidates compare to competitive products with respect to labeling, pricing, therapeutic effect, and method of delivery; and • whether we are able to establish agreements with third party collaborators, including large biopharmaceutical or other marketing companies, with respect to any of our product candidates on terms that are acceptable Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. We have no experience in selling pharmaceutical or other products or in manufacturing or procuring drug products in commercial quantities in compliance with FDA regulations and we have only limited experience in negotiating, establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships and conducting later stage phases of the regulatory approval process. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to improve and expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, if rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources, which are limited. Our proprietary technology and patents may offer only limited protection against infringement and the development by our competitors of competitive products. We own two patents jointly with the United States government. These patents expire in 2016. We also own ten United States patents with expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2024, four European patents with expiration dates ranging from 2009 to 2016 and three Japanese patents with expiration dates ranging from 2010 to 2016. We also own patent applications that are pending in the United States, Europe, Japan, and other foreign countries. The scope of protection afforded by patents for biotechnological inventions is uncertain, and such uncertainty applies to our patents as well. Therefore, our patents may not give us competitive advantages or afford us adequate protection from competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop products that are similar to our products, and may design around the claims of our patents. Patent litigation and intellectual property litigation are expensive and our resources are limited. If we were to become involved in litigation, we might not have the funds or other resources necessary to conduct the litigation effectively. This might prevent us from protecting our patents, from defending against claims of infringement, or both. To date, we have not received any threats of litigation regarding patent issues. 21 We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success also depends in part on ensuring that we do not infringe the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. While we have not been sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that the drug product candidates that we have under development do not or will not infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. Moreover, United States patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not published until the patent issues. Further, some applications are kept secret during the entire length of their pendency by request of the applicant in special circumstances. As a result, there may be patents of which we are unaware, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. Patent holders sometimes send communications to a number of companies in related fields, suggesting possible infringement. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that we either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, which we may not be able to do. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. Parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and such claims could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products or be required to cease commercializing affected products and our operating results would be harmed. In the future, others may file patent applications covering technologies that we may wish to utilize with our proprietary technologies, or products that are similar to products developed with the use of our technologies. If these patent applications result in issued patents and we wish to use the claimed technology, we would need to obtain a license from the third party, and this would increase our costs of operations and harm our operating results. If we lose key management personnel or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business could be harmed. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, including, but not limited to, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kuslima Shogen. None of the members of our management staff have employment contracts with us. We do not have key man insurance on any of our management. If we were to lose the services of Ms. Shogen, or other members of our management staff, and were unable to replace them, our product development and the achievement of our strategic objectives could be delayed. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial, scientific, technical, and managerial personnel. While we have not experienced unusual difficulties to date in recruiting and retaining personnel, there is intense competition for qualified staff and no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain qualified staff in the future. If we are unable to obtain favorable reimbursement for our product candidates, their commercial success may be severely hindered. Our ability to sell our future products may depend in large part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products is available from government entities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and others. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain their costs. We cannot predict what actions third-party payors may take, or whether they will limit the coverage and level of reimbursement for our products or refuse to provide any coverage at all. Reduced or partial reimbursement coverage could make our products less attractive to patients, suppliers and prescribing physicians and may not be adequate for us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in our product candidates or to compete on price. 22 In some cases, insurers and other healthcare payment organizations try to encourage the use of less expensive generic brands and over-the-counter, or OTC, products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. These organizations may make the generic alternative more attractive to the patient by providing different amounts of reimbursement so that the net cost of the generic product to the patient is less than the net cost of a prescription brand product. Aggressive pricing policies by our generic product competitors and the prescription benefits policies of insurers could have a negative effect on our product revenues and profitability. Many managed care organizations negotiate the price of medical services and products and develop formularies for that purpose. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic or OTC products, our market share and gross margins could be negatively affected, as could our overall business and financial condition. The competition among pharmaceutical companies to have their products approved for reimbursement may also result in downward pricing pressure in the industry or in the markets where our products will compete. We may not be successful in any efforts we take to mitigate the effect of a decline in average selling prices for our products. Any decline in our average selling prices would also reduce our gross margins. In addition, managed care initiatives to control costs may influence primary care physicians to refer fewer patients to oncologists and other specialists. Reductions in these referrals could have a material adverse effect on the size of our potential market and increase costs to effectively promote our products. We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals and managed care initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry, including reductions in the cost of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. For example, the Prescription Drug and Medicare Improvement Act of 2003 provides a Medicare prescription drug benefit that began in 2006 and mandates other reforms. Although we cannot predict the full effects on our business of the implementation of this new legislation, it is possible that the new benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that other proposals will be adopted. As a result of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit or any other proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements, any of which could harm our ability to operate our business efficiently, obtain collaborators and raise capital. Our product candidates may not be accepted by the market. Even if approved by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, our product candidates may not achieve market acceptance, which means we would not receive significant revenues from these products. Approval by the FDA does not necessarily mean that the medical community will be convinced of the relative safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products as compared to other products. In addition, third party reimbursers such as insurance companies and HMOs may be reluctant to reimburse expenses relating to our products. Material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing, and other aspects of our business. As of April 30, 2007, management had concluded that a control deficiency with respect to a lack of personnel with financial reporting expertise sufficient to properly record and report non-routine and complex 23 transactions and accounting pronouncements constituted a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. This control deficiency resulted in an understatement of the amount recorded as compensation expense during the first three interim periods of the fiscal year ended July 31, 2006, offset by a charge during the final fiscal quarter of 2006. During 2007, management revised its policies and procedures with respect to its controls over recording and reporting non-routine and complex transactions and accounting pronouncements to ensure that all reasonable steps will be taken to correct this material weakness. As of July 31, 2007, the deficiency was considered to be remediated as the new internal controls were operational for a period of time, were tested, and management concluded that the controls were operating effectively at that time. Internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance that deficiencies or weaknesses are identified. Additionally, potential control deficiencies that are not yet identified could emerge and internal controls that are currently deemed to be in place and operating effectively are subject to the risk that those controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Identification and corrections of these types of potential control deficiencies could have a material impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and disclosures and impact our ability to raise funds. Our investments could lose market value and consequently harm our ability to fund continuing operations. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash and cash equivalents in a variety of securities, including government and corporate obligations and money market funds. The market values of these investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control. Fluctuations in the market price and valuations of these securities may require us to record losses due to impairment in the value of the securities underlying our investment. This could result in future charges to our earnings. All of our investment securities are denominated in US dollars. Investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. Fixed-rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In general, securities with longer maturities are subject to greater interest rate risk than those with shorter maturities. While floating-rate securities generally are subject to less interest rate risk than fixed-rate securities, floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates decrease. Due in part to these factors, our investment income may fall short of expectations or we may suffer losses in principal if securities are sold that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. We handle hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. We could also be liable for damages, penalties, or other forms of censure if we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident. Our research and development processes involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials and biological hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, even by a third party, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and such liability could exceed the $2,000,000 limit of our current general liability insurance coverage and our financial resources. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could also be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. 24 We may be sued for product liability. Our business exposes us to potential product liability that may have a negative effect on our financial performance and our business generally. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, exposes us to potential product and professional liability risks which are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of new drugs for humans. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us, which could have a negative effect on our financial performance and materially adversely affect our business. We maintain product liability insurance to protect our products and product candidates in amounts customary for companies in businesses that are similarly situated, but our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims. Furthermore, liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we cannot be certain that we will always be able to maintain or increase our insurance coverage at an affordable price or in sufficient amounts to protect against potential losses. A product liability claim, product recall or other claim, as well as any claim for uninsured liabilities or claim in excess of insured liabilities, may significantly harm our business and results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may significantly interfere with our business. Our incorporation documents may delay or prevent the removal of our current management or a change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. We are currently authorized to issue 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without any approval of the stockholders, to issue the preferred stock and determine the terms of the preferred stock. This provision allows the board of directors to affect the rights of stockholders, since the board of directors can make it more difficult for common stockholders to replace members of the board. Because the board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current management by the common stockholders. Furthermore, the existence of authorized shares of preferred stock might have the effect of discouraging any attempt by a person, through the acquisition of a substantial number of shares of common stock, to acquire control of our company. Accordingly, the accomplishment of a tender offer may be more difficult. This may be beneficial to management in a hostile tender offer, but have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in the tender offer or inhibit a stockholder’s ability to receive an acquisition premium for his or her shares. Events with respect to our share capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We had 46,280,880 shares of common stock outstanding as of July 31, 2007. The following securities that may be exercised into shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding as of July 31, 2007: • Options. Stock options to purchase 4,867,039 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $2.85 per share. • Warrants. Warrants to purchase 16,070,748 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $2.00 per share. The shares of our common stock that may be issued under the options and warrants are currently registered with the SEC or are eligible for sale without any volume limitations pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act. The ability of our stockholders to recover against Armus Harrison & Co., or AHC, may be limited because we have not been able to obtain the reissued reports of AHC with respect to the financial statements included in our Form 10-K, nor have we been able to obtain AHC’s consent to the use of such report herein. Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) provides that any person acquiring or selling a security in reliance upon statements set forth in a Form 10-K may assert a claim against every accountant who has with its consent been named as having prepared or certified any part of the Form 10-K, or as having prepared or certified any report or valuation that is used in connection with the Form 10-K, if that part of the Form 25 10-K at the time it is filed contains a false or misleading statement of a material fact, or omits a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (unless it is proved that at the time of such acquisition such acquiring person knew of such untruth or omission). In June 1996, AHC dissolved and ceased all operations. Therefore, we have not been able to obtain the reissued reports of AHC with respect to the financial statements included in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2007 nor have we been able to obtain AHC’s consent to the use of such report herein. As a result, in the event any persons seek to assert a claim against AHC under Section 18 of the Exchange Act for any untrue statement of a material fact contained in these financial statements or any omissions to state a material fact required to be stated therein, such persons will be barred. Accordingly, you may be unable to assert a claim against AHC under Section 18 of the Exchange Act for any purchases of the Company’s Common Stock made in reliance upon statements set forth in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2007. In addition, the ability of AHC to satisfy any claims properly brought against it may be limited as a practical matter due to AHC’s dissolution in 1996. ITEM 