Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that reflect management’s analysis only as of the date hereof. Dionex undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Dionex (the Company) designs, manufactures, markets and services analytical instrumentation and related accessories and chemicals. The Company’s products are used to analyze chemical substances in the environment and in a broad range of industrial and scientific applications. The Company evaluated those business activities that are regularly reviewed by the Company’s senior management and has determined that it has two operating segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The Company designs, manufactures, markets and services a range of liquid chromatography systems, sample preparation devices and related products that are used by chemists to separate and quantify the individual components of complex chemical mixtures in many major industrial, research and laboratory markets. The Company’s chromatography systems are currently focused in several product areas: ion chromatography (IC), high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and capillary-/nano-liquid chromatography (capillary-/nano-LC). The Company also offers a mass spectrometer coupled with either an IC or HPLC system. For sample preparation, the Company provides automated solvent extraction systems. In addition, the Company develops and manufactures columns, detectors, data collection and analysis systems for use in or with liquid chromatographs. Each of these product areas is described below. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Dionex” and “the Company” as used herein include Dionex Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. 3 Table of Contents Ion Chromatography — Ion chromatography is a form of chromatography that separates ionic (charged) molecules, usually found in water-based solutions, and typically detects them based on their electrical conductivity. The sale of Dionex IC systems and related columns, suppressors, detectors, automation and other products accounted for over 60% of the Company’s net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Dionex IC products are used in a wide range of analytical applications, including environmental monitoring, quality control of pharmaceuticals, corrosion monitoring, and evaluation of raw materials, quality control of industrial processes and products, research and development, and regulation of the chemical composition of food, beverage and cosmetic products. Major customers include environmental testing laboratories, life science and food companies, chemical and petrochemical firms, power generation facilities, electronics manufacturers, government agencies and academic institutions. In fiscal 2003, the Company introduced the industry’s first Reagent Free IC (RFIC) systems by combining eluent generation and advanced eluent suppression technologies, eliminating the need for manual preparation of eluents and reagents. RFIC systems simplify ion chromatography while increasing its sensitivity and reproducibility. RFIC systems also eliminate the errors associated with manual reagent preparation. In fiscal 2005, the Company further expanded its RFIC capabilities by offering duel RFIC capabilities. In fiscal 2006, the Company expanded this powerful technology further by introducing RFIC for carbonate/bi-carbonate eluents. The Company offers a broad range of systems for IC: In fiscal 2005, the Company introduced the ICS-3000 RFIC System. This modular system provides a wide range of capabilities to the Company’s customers and expands its RFIC systems to a broader range of eluents (liquids to carry a sample through a liquid chromatography system). This product replaced the Company’s ICS-2500 RFIC system. ICS-3000 RFIC System — The premier product in the Dionex IC family, the modular ICS-3000 RFIC system is expandable from a single to a dual system in one footprint. The ICS-3000 features the latest advancements in an RFIC system including dual eluent generation capabilities, continuously regenerated trap column capabilities, and the SRS Self-Regenerating Suppressor technology. The ICS-3000 comes as single or dual configurations with flow rates ranging from microbore to semi preparative. Flexible analytical capability is offered by interfacing with several detectors including conductivity, electrochemical, UV-Vis, photodiode array, and mass spectrometry. For sample introduction, the system is available with the full-featured autosampler (AS) capable of sample preparation functions, pre-concentration and matrix elimination for removal of interfering analytes and enhancing detection abilities. One autosampler (AS) can be shared between two systems, keeping costs to a minimum. The ICS-3000 RFIC system has the capabilities to allow customers to run parallel or 2D chromatography analyses. Chromeleon chromatography data management software, available with the ICS-3000, provides powerful data processing, control features, audit trail, intuitive database management, and full client-server capabilities using an easy to navigate graphical user interface. Together, the hardware and software offer “system wellness”, a feature that automatically schedules calibration, validation, and routine maintenance on each module. Built-in diagnostics can be prompted from the software to help troubleshoot and track useful parameters such as absorbance detector lamp life and column usage. For customers that do not require the full capabilities of the Company’s Chromeleon software, the Company offers Chromeleon Xpress for stand-alone control of the ICS-3000. This product replaced the Company’s ICS-2500 RFIC system. In fiscal 2000, the Company introduced the ICS-2000 RFIC System, the industry’s first totally integrated and preconfigured RFIC system designed to perform with all types of electrolytically generated eluents for isocratic and gradient IC separations using suppressed conductivity detection. The system is controlled from an LCD touch pad front panel or using Chromeleon software. RFIC systems benefits include ease-of use, consistency and superior performance as compared to systems with manually prepared eluents. In fiscal 2003, the Company introduced the ICS-1500 System, a fully integrated and preconfigured system designed to perform IC separations using conductivity detection. The system is available with a dual-piston pump, thermally controlled conductivity cell, column heater, and optional in-line vacuum degassing. 4 Table of Contents The system is controlled from an LCD touch pad front panel or using Chromeleon software. Using AutoSuppression, the ICS-1500 is a rugged, easy-to-use instrument with high analytical sensitivity. In fiscal 2003, the Company introduced the ICS-1000, an integrated and preconfigured system that performs IC separations using conductivity detection. The system features a dual-piston pump, LED status front panel and is controlled by the Company’s Chromeleon software (see “Automation Products — Chromeleon Software” for a description of this software’s capabilities). Options include column heating and in-line vacuum degassing. The ICS-1000 provides built-in control for electrolytic suppression technology to provide high performance and ease of use. In fiscal 2002, the Company introduced the ICS-90 integrated IC system. The ICS-90 is designed for routine ion analysis and provides rapid start up times, easy operation and stable performance. Process Instrumentation — The Company offers the DX-800 Process Analyzer for continuous on-line monitoring necessary in a variety of industrial applications. The DX-800 uses Chromeleon software for automation, data acquisition, reporting and security features. The software allows the user to view analyzer status, handle alarms, and interface with the computing and control systems in place at the enterprise where the DX-800 is installed. Major applications for the DX-800 are in the power generation industry for the continuous monitoring of corrosive contaminants in boiler water, the semiconductor industry for continuous monitoring of contaminants in high purity water, and the pharmaceutical and chemical industries for continuous monitoring of biological and chemical synthesis processes. The Company’s IC systems and related accessories and software are marketed and sold worldwide. High Performance Liquid Chromatography — HPLC is a form of chromatography that separates a wide range of molecules, such as proteins, carbohydrates, amino acids, and pharmaceuticals, and quantifies the components by measuring the amount of light that the molecules absorb or emit when exposed to a light source. The Company’s HPLC customers include life science companies active in biological research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical drug discovery and development, and other industrial companies. The sales of Dionex HPLC products accounted for approximately 30% of the Company’s net sales in each of fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. The Company offers the following products for HPLC: UltiMate 3000 HPLC system — Introduced in fiscal 2006, the UltiMate 3000 for analytical, micro and semi-prepetive flowrates. The UltiMate 3000 consists of single or dual-high precision pumps providing accurate, highly reproducible isocratic or gradient separations from 2.5ml/min to 100ml/min depending on the configuration. The UltiMate 3000 systems allow advanced chromatography techniques such as tandem, two-dimensional, one-line SPE and parallel applications. Chromeleon Chromatography data management software, available with the UltiMate 3000 offers full system control, multi-instrument control and other powerful features. The UltiMate 3000 HPLC systems replaced the Summit HPLC system. The UltiMate 3000 HPLC systems are marketed and sold worldwide. Auto-Purification System (APS) — The Company introduced in fiscal 2004 the APS-2000 System Series for the purification of synthesized biological and natural compounds. The APS-2000 brings the power of Ultimate HPLC system and Chromeleon software to purification. The APS-2000 is designed to increase throughput in the purification of compounds. The APS-2000 is marketed and sold worldwide. ICS-3000 RFIC System — The ICS-3000 features an inert, metal-free, polyetheretherketone (PEEK) flow path to preserve chemically unstable biomolecules. The ICS-3000 provides high performance dual piston pumps and detectors, including a choice of electrochemical, absorbance and photodiode array detectors. These options allow for a wide range of applications including quantification of carbohydrates, amino acids, proteins and peptides, nucleic acids and small biomolecules. The ICS-3000 system is controlled by Chromeleon software and is marketed and sold worldwide. Capillary-/nano-LC — Capillary-/nano-LC is a form of HPLC that uses low flow rates for analyzing sample volumes much smaller than those analyzed using traditional analytical HPLC. 5 Table of Contents The Company offers the following products for capillary-/nano-HPLC: UltiMate 3000 Capillary-/Nano-LC System — Introduced in fiscal 2005, the UltiMate 3000 system is a dedicated microseparation system. The UltiMate 3000 consists of single or dual high-precision pumps coupled with patented flow control capabilities and a proprietary method of flow splitting to provide accurate, reproducible isocratic and gradient separations from 50nl/min to 2.5ml/min, depending on the configuration. The UltiMate also has a specially developed UV detector. This detector coupled with the Company’s proprietary capillary flow cells allows the most sensitive UV detection in microcolumn separations. Accessories for the UltiMate system include the WPS-3000 Wellplate autosampler and the FLM-3100 Flow Control module for flow control in a thermostated column compartment that also allows column switching. The Ultimate 3000 replaced the UltiMate Plus and the Summit HPLC system and is marketed and sold worldwide. The Company offers the Probot microfraction collector for the micro-analysis market. The Probot allows collection or dispensation of micro-fractions and is also used for precision spotting of MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer target plates. Sample Preparation — The Company offers a number of solutions for sample preparation: Accelerated Solvent Extraction (ASE) Instruments — The ASE 300 and ASE 100 are automated sample extraction instruments for large samples up to 100 mL and the ASE 200 is for samples less than 34 mL. The ASE 200 and ASE 300 can automatically extract 24 samples and 12 samples, respectively, while the ASE 100 is a single-sample automated extractor. Each ASE system extracts components of interest from solid samples using common solvents (the same used in traditional soxhlet techniques) at elevated temperatures and pressures. Competitive techniques include soxhlet, sonication, microwave extraction and supercritical fluid extraction. The ASE 200 and 300 systems offer several advantages over other solvent based extraction techniques including lower solvent consumption, reduced extraction time, higher throughput automation and ease of use. ASE systems are marketed and sold worldwide for a number of environmental, pharmaceutical, industrial and food and beverage applications. The Company offers the Solvent Controller Module, which automates the delivery of multiple solvents to the ASE systems, and AutoASE, an add-on software feature which allows control of up to eight ASE systems from one location, as well as provides methods of data storage and documentation. In fiscal 2005, the Company added the SE 400 and SE 500 Solvent Evaporation Systems to the Company’s sample preparation offerings. The systems are designed to rapidly evaporate organic solvents or water from ASE collection vials or bottles. Detectors — Detectors are used to measure the quantity of various sample components after they have been separated in a chromatography column. The Company currently offers several detector products based on conductivity, electrochemistry, absorbance (including the PDA-3000 photodiode array detector), fluorescence and refractive index absorbance. This range of detectors is designed to meet customer requirements for analysis of organics, inorganics, metals, amino acids, biological compounds and pharmaceuticals. Mass Spectrometry — Mass spectrometry (MS) is used to identify the molecular weight of compounds within a sample substance and renders structural molecular information. The Company, through an agreement with Thermo Electron Corporation, offers the MSQ Plus mass spectrometer (MSQ Plus) together with the Ultimate 3000 Analytical HPLC and ICS-3000 systems. The Company sells LC/MS and IC/MS systems using the MSQ Plus to existing and new customers worldwide, particularly in the pharmaceutical market, but also for environmental testing, drug, beverage and food quality control and many other applications. The MSQ Plus mass spectrometer is a compact, benchtop, single quadrupole mass detector. The standard system is supplied with both Electrospray (ESI) and Atmospheric Pressure Chemical Ionization (APCI) for maximum analytical flexibility. The agreement with Thermo Electron enables the Company to reach chemists desiring MS capabilities who previously were not among the Company’s potential customers. In addition, in fiscal 2006 the Company introduced the Dionex Chromatography Mass Spectrometry Link (DCMSLink) software. This software package provides an interface for controlling a wide range of Dionex chromatography instruments from third-party mass spectrometry software (MS software) such as Analyst from Applied Biosystems/MDS Sciex, Xcalibur from Thermo Electron Corporation, and HyStar from Bruker Daltonics. When using DCMSLink, all instruments are controlled and all data is stored, reviewed, quantitated and reported by 6 Table of Contents the MS software. DCMSLink enables Dionex to expand to additional potential markets for the Company chromatography systems to customers who desire the quality and features of Dionex chromatography with higher-end mass spectrometers. Automation Products — As part of its efforts to make chemical analyses simpler, faster and more reliable, the Company offers a family of products that automate sample handling, system operation and data analysis for chromatography systems. These products include Chromeleon software and several automated sample injection modules available for IC and HPLC applications. Chromeleon Software — In fiscal 2006, the Company introduced Chromeleon 6.8, the latest version of its chromatography data management system. From a single user interface, Chromeleon provides full control of over 200 LC and GC instruments from more than 25 vendors of liquid and gas chromatography systems. It is an easy-to-use, adaptable data management system with scalable client/server architecture for customers requiring a single workstation to lab- or campus-wide deployment. Data is organized by instrument, user, project or product. All data is stored locally on a personal computer, centrally on a network server, or both. Chromeleon features a flexible graphical user interface and report generator which can be adapted to dedicated applications. Chromeleon also offers a complete suite of features for regulatory compliance: security, validation, audit trails and electronic signatures. Chromeleon provides all the features that laboratories need to comply with GLP, GMP and 21 CFR Part 11 without losing productivity. Autosamplers — The Company offers a number of autosamplers that address a variety of customer needs. The AS40 Automated Sample Injection module (AS40) is a low-cost, metal-free, rugged automated sample loading device designed especially for ion chromatography applications. The AS40 can be used with the Company’s IC systems. For more complex needs, the Company offers the AS50 Autosampler (AS50). The AS50 is a high-performance, random vial access autosampler with automated sample injection which is used primarily with the high-end RFIC systems. The Company also provides the simultaneous injection AS50 Autosampler for concurrent injection of a sample onto two analytical systems or an ICS-3000 Dual RFIC System for running unique or similar applications. For HPLC applications, the Company offers the WPS 3000 series of Autosamplers with optional thermal control for temperature-sensitive samples. The WPS provides speed, simplicity, reliability and precision with either pull-loop or in-line split-loop injection technology. The removable carousels and programmable needle depth allows the WPS to accommodate a variety of sample vials and sizes including wellplates. For Capillary and Nano-LC, the Company offers the WPS-3000 WellPlate micro Autosampler. The WPS-3000 micro is a fully automated micro autosampler for sample injections from up to three 96 or 386 well plates or conventional 1.5 milliliter vials. The unique design allows for automated injection of volumes down to 20 nanoliters. WPS-3000 has a proprietary injection technique that guarantees high performance and virtually no sample dispersion. Columns — A chromatography column consists of a hollow cylinder packed with a unique separation material. The column’s function is to separate various chemical components in a sample. The Company develops and manufactures separation materials such as ion-exchange resins, silica-based bonded phases and monolithic phases using proprietary processes. Dionex currently manufactures and markets a broad range of column types designed and tested for specific applications in the HPLC and IC markets. Dionex offers a wide range of polymer-based ion-exchange and reversed-phase columns supporting capillary, analytical and semipreparative scale applications. Recent column introductions augment a continuing program of product launches geared to address developing market requirements. For ion chromatography, the Company introduced the IonPac Fast AS22, IonPac AS23 anion exchange columns and the IonPac CS18 cation exchange column. The IonPac Fast AS22 allows customers to rapidly determine anions in drinking water. The IonPac AS23 provides fast analyses of disinfectant byproduct 7 Table of Contents anions in drinking water. The IonPac CS18 allows determination of a wide variety of amines (metal cations) commonly found in a variety of industrial samples, soil or (drinking) water. In fiscal 2005, the Company introduced the IonPac Fast Anion III, IonPac AS20 and IonPac AS21 anion exchange columns. In fiscal 2004, the Company introduced a number of consumable products. For the HPLC market, the Company in fiscal 2006 introduced two Acclaim Explosives columns. These columns further expand the Acclaim family of HPLC columns that were introduced in fiscal 2002. The Acclaim Explosives columns allow baseline resolution of all 14 analytes specified in EPA method 8330, simplifying and improving the analysis of explosives and explosives degradation products in environmental samples. For the life science market, the Company introduced two new columns: the ProPac IMAC-10 column and the ProPac HIC-10 column. These two columns expand the range of separation technologies available to the research scientist involved in a characterization and analysis of proteins in biological systems as well as protein therapeutics. In addition, the Company introduced the new monolithic columns for the rapid characterization and analysis of proteins: the Proswift RP-1S, Proswift RP-2H, Proswift RP-3H and the Proswift WAX-1S columns. In fiscal 2005, the company expanded its HPLC column offering by introducing the Acclaim PA2 and the Acclaim Surfactant columns. The Company expanded its polymeric Monolithic Capillary column offerings for ultra-fast separation of proteins and peptides by acquiring the polymeric monolithic separations media technology and assets from Teledyne/Isco in August 2005. In addition to the Monolithic Capillary Columns, the Company offers a wide variety of micro, capillary and nano-LC columns. The columns range in size from 75 microns to 1 millimeter internal diameter and are packed with a variety of “stationary phase” materials. Eluent Suppressors — The Company manufactures eluent suppressors that are used to enhance detection and sensitivity in ion chromatography. The Company’s suppressors lower background conductivity and support a wide range of ion exchange columns separations including separations using high capacity columns and more concentrated eluents liquids used to carry a sample through a liquid chromatography system. Dionex offers an array of suppressors that include the Self Regenerating Suppressor (SRS Ultra II), the Atlas Suppressor and the MicroMembrane Suppressor (MMS III). The Self Regenerating Suppressor enhances IC performance during long-term operation, without user intervention. The SRS Ultra II provides superior performance for all IC applications, particularly traces level ion chromatography using hydroxide eluents, and is a key component of the ICS-3000 Reagent Free IC (RFIC) systems. The Atlas Suppressor (AES) provides improved sensitivity, lower noise and faster start-up over the Company’s previous, industry leading AutoSuppression technology, raising performance goals even higher for IC electrolytic suppression. The AES suppressor offers optimal performance for most anion applications using carbonate eluents and cation applications using methanesulfonic acid eluents. The MMS III MicroMembrane Suppressor, with an innovative displacement chemical regeneration mode of operation, can be used with all Dionex ion-exchange columns, providing ultra-low noise operation, and is recommended for anion and cation separations when using eluents containing organic solvents. Service and Other — The Company also generates sales from its Customer Service organization through maintenance contracts, spare part sales, customer training and sales of other products and valued-added services. (See “Technical Support, Installation and Service” below.) CUSTOMERS, MARKETING, AND SALES The Company’s products are used extensively in the Environmental, Industrial and Life Science markets using chromatography and extraction technologies. The Environmental market is characterized by water analysis, safety and security applications and pollution testing, with chemists from private and governmental laboratories being the Company’s primary customers in this field. The Industrial segments comprise the electronics and power industries which a demand for analyzing the higher purity water quality in their production facilities. Furthermore, the Company serves a number of the largest industrial companies worldwide within the chemical industry segment, which produce specialty chemicals, petrochemicals, consumer products and more, and the food and beverage 8 Table of Contents segment, which test for product quality assurance. The Life Science markets Dionex serves include the pharmaceutical segment, biosciences and medical sciences with customers from industrial, academic and governmental accounts. One of the Company’s marketing strategies is to target all market segments mentioned above where Dionex technology is already established. Here, the Company seeks to increase demand for its chromatography solutions by approaching all existing and potential customers through direct marketing activities including direct sales calls, mailings, advertising, electronic marketing, seminars, and workshops. In addition, the Company builds visibility and branding for the Company’s global presence through scientific conferences and exhibitions. Continuous growth in all these markets results from identifying new customers in existing sales regions, extending geographic penetration and increasing demand for the Company’s products and technical support capabilities. The second component of the Company’s marketing strategy is to explore and develop new application fields in close collaboration with existing and potential customers, and to leverage this competence into other market areas. A prerequisite to establish this process is the availability of highly skilled technical developing and support staff working to also assist customers in solution definition and development. To meet and exceed customer expectations in the Company’s developing commercial markets, the Company’s effort is to optimize and diversify its technology interests in the chromatography market, including sample preparation, purification, analysis, testing, and data management. Geographically, the Company currently markets and distributes its products and services through its own sales force in Austria, Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the United States. In each of these countries, the Company maintains one or more local sales offices in order to support and service the Company customers in the regions. Sales to customers by geographic region were approximately 31% in North America, 42% in Europe, and 27% in Asia/Pacific and other of net sales in fiscal 2006 and 2005. The United States accounts for the largest portion of the Company’s overall revenues followed by Germany and Japan, respectively. In other international locations where it does not have a direct sales force, the Company has developed a network of distributors and sales agents. The Company manufactures its products based upon its forecast of customer demand and maintains adequate inventories of completed modules or finished goods in advance of receipt of firm orders. System or instrument orders are generally placed by the customer on an as-needed basis, and instruments are usually shipped within four to six weeks after receipt of an order. The Company does not maintain a substantial backlog, and backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of the Company’s actual sales in any succeeding period. The level of backlog at June 30, 2006 was $46.9 million and at June 30, 2005 was $41.0 million. COMPETITION Competition in the Company’s industry is based upon the performance capabilities of the analytical instruments, technical support and after-market services, the manufacturer’s reputation as a technological leader and selling prices. Management believes that performance capabilities are the most important of these criteria. Customers measure system performance based on sensitivity (the ability to discern minute quantities of a particular sample component), selectivity (the ability to distinguish between similar components), speed and throughput of analysis, and the range of chemical and biological samples the system can effectively analyze. Management believes that the Company enjoys a favorable reputation in terms of performance capabilities, technical support and service. Companies competing with Dionex in the analytical instruments market include Agilent Technologies, Inc., Waters Corporation, Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Corporation, Varian, Inc., Perkin-Elmer, Inc. and Metrohm Ltd. The Company believes no single competitor has a dominant position in the analytical instruments market. The Company believes it has a substantial market share in a segment of the liquid chromatography (LC) market, the ion chromatography (IC) segment. Dionex IC systems generally compete with a number of analytical techniques used in identifying and quantifying ionic and polar compounds. The primary source of competition are conventional manual and automated wet chemistry procedures and certain possibly modified liquid chromatography systems using a single column method without or including a ion suppression device. Companies 9 Table of Contents competing with Dionex in IC include such vendors as W.R. Grace Alltech, Metrohm AG, Shimadzu Corporation, Waters Corporation and other smaller companies. The Company believes it has a smaller but rapidly growing market share in the HPLC and capillary-/nano-LC markets. The Company’s UltiMate 3000 systems compete directly with other manufacturers’ HPLC systems in traditional and capillary-/nano-HPLC applications. The Company believes that the UltiMate HPLC system has certain benefits over competing systems, including advanced pump and dual pump technology, thermostatted temperature control, high performance auto sampling capabilities, all technologies designed for intelligent LC (LCi). In addition, UltiMate 3000 offers many benefits over competing systems including the ability to analyze minute contents of sample at very low flow rates. The Company also believes that its CHROMELEON software package not only provides competitive advantages over its competitors’ software offerings but is respected as the most advanced chromatography data management system in the market. Competitors of the Company in the HPLC market include such vendors as Agilent Technologies, Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Electron Corporation, Varian, Inc., Waters Corporation and various smaller companies. The Company’s Accelerated Solvent Extraction (ASE) series compete directly with standard Soxhlet, sonication, supercritical fluid extraction and microwave extraction techniques provided by other companies. Management believes that its ASE systems have certain benefits compared to competing techniques, including faster extraction time, reduced solvent usage, built-in automation, and ease of use. PATENTS AND LICENSES The Company has a patent portfolio covering certain technologies of the Company’s products. The Company’s patents are presently issued to the United States and number of foreign countries. As a matter of Company policy, the Company vigorously protects its intellectual property rights and seeks patent coverage on developments that it regards as strategic, material and patentable. The Company’s patents, including those licensed from others, expire on various dates through 2022. The Company believes that, while its patent portfolio has value, no single patent or patent application is in itself essential and that the invalidity or expiration of any single patent would not have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company regards its CHROMELEON software as proprietary and relies on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and other proprietary rights, laws, license agreements and other restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title to protect its rights to its software products. The Company has no patents covering its software, and existing copyright laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales is provided in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements found elsewhere in this report. The Company has subsidiaries in Austria, Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom and the United States. The Company’s foreign sales are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and by regulation adopted by foreign governments. Such fluctuations have materially affected, both positively and negatively, the Company’s results of operation in past periods and will likely materially affect the Company’s results of operations in the future. Export sales are subject to certain controls and restrictions, but the Company has not experienced any material difficulties related to these limitations. MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLIERS The Company produces chemicals and resins and assembles IC systems and modules in its California manufacturing facilities. The Company assembles the systems and modules for its UltiMate3000 systems in its manufacturing facility in Germany. The Company has developed proprietary processes for the manufacture of polystyrene-based resins and for packing columns with these resins. The Company believes that its resins, columns and suppressor manufacturing know-how are critical to the performance and reliability of its chromatography systems. The Company requires each employee and consultant to sign a nondisclosure agreement to protect its 10 Table of Contents proprietary processes. However, there can be no assurances that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for the Company’s proprietary processes in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. The Company has emphasized a modular design for the principal subsystems of its pumping and flow systems, sample injection systems, chromatography modules, detectors, and control and data analysis systems. The Company believes that this modular approach has enabled it to meet the wide range of system configurations required by its customers. Manufacturing has transitioned into flow-line production for its major systems while maintaining subassembly cell production for its integrated modules. These practices have enhanced the Company’s ability to effectively manage its inventory levels. Many subassemblies used in the Company’s products, including proprietary analog and digital circuitry, are manufactured by the Company. Components, including formed-plastic and sheet-metal packaging materials, machine-metal parts, integrated circuits, microprocessors, microcomputers and certain detector and data analysis modules, are purchased from other manufacturers. Most of the raw materials, components and supplies purchased by the Company are available from a number of different suppliers, although a number of items are purchased from limited or single source of supply. EMPLOYEES The Company had 1,135 employees at June 30, 2006, compared with 1,066 employees at June 30, 2005. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company maintains a website at www.dionex.com; however, information found on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In addition, the charters for the Company’s Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees, and the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the Company’s website at www.dionex.com and a printed copy of this information is available without charge by sending a written request to: Investor Relations, Dionex Corporation, 1228 Titan Way, Sunnyvale, California 94088. TECHNICAL SUPPORT, INSTALLATION AND SERVICE Users of the Company’s chromatography systems may require technical support before and after a system sale. Services provided before the sale are recorded in operating expenses as incurred. Chromatography systems sold by the Company generally include a one-year warranty. These costs are accrued for at the time of the system sale. Installation and certain basic user training are provided to the customer, with revenues for these services recognized at the time the services are provided. Maintenance contracts may be purchased by customers to cover equipment no longer under warranty. Maintenance work not performed under warranty or maintenance contracts is performed on a time and materials basis. The Company offers training courses and periodically sends its customers information on applications development. The Company installs and services its products through its own field service organizations in Austria, Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom and the United States. Installation and service in other foreign countries are typically provided by the Company’s distributors or agents. RESEARCH AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company’s research and product development efforts are focused on increasing the performance of its chromatography and other products and expanding the number of chemical and biological compounds that can be analyzed efficiently with its products. Research and product development expenditures were $22.4 million, $20.4 million and $19.2 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company pursues active development programs in the areas of system hardware, applications, computer software, suppressors, and resin 11 Table of Contents and column technologies. There can be no assurances that the Company’s product development efforts will be successful or that the products developed will be accepted by the marketplace. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The continuation or spread of the current economic uncertainty in key markets would likely harm the Company’s operating results. The Company sells its products in many geographical regions throughout the world. If economic conditions in any of these regions decline or continue to decline, the demand for the Company’s products is likely to be reduced. An economic downturn in any of the Company’s major markets would likely harm the Company’s results of operations. Foreign currency fluctuations and other risks related to international operations may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company derived approximately 72% of its net sales from outside the United States in fiscal 2006 and expects to continue to derive the majority of net sales from outside the United States for the foreseeable future. Most of the Company’s sales outside the United States are denominated in the local currency of its customers. As a result, the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net sales varies with currency rate fluctuations. Significant changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In recent periods, the Company’s results of operations have been negatively affected from the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, the Japanese yen and other foreign currencies. Tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, changes in political environments, interruptions in overseas shipments and changes in tax laws may also impact international sales negatively. Fluctuations in worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation could affect the Company’s operating results. The demand for analytical instrumentation products can fluctuate depending upon capital expenditure cycles. Most companies consider the Company’s instrumentation products capital equipment and some customers may be unable to secure the necessary capital expenditure approvals due to general economic or customer specific conditions. Significant fluctuations in demand could harm the Company’s results of operations. Fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results may cause the Company’s stock price to decline. A high proportion of the Company’s costs are fixed due in part to the Company’s significant sales, research and product development and manufacturing costs. Declines in revenue caused by fluctuations in currency rates, worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation or other factors could disproportionately affect the Company’s quarterly operating results, which may in turn cause the Company’s stock price to decline. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition will suffer if the Company does not introduce new products that are attractive to its customers on a timely basis. The Company’s products are highly technical in nature. As a result, many of the Company’s products must be developed months or even years in advance of the potential need by a customer. If the Company fails to introduce new products and enhancements as demand arises or in advance of the competition, the Company’s products are likely to become obsolete over time, which would harm operating results. Also, if the market is not receptive to the Company’s newly developed products, the Company may be unable to recover costs of research and product development and marketing, and may fail to achieve material components of its business plan. 12 Table of Contents The analytical instrument market is highly competitive, and the Company’s inability to compete effectively in this market would adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The analytical instrumentation market is highly competitive and the Company competes with many companies on a local and international level that are significantly larger than Dionex and have greater resources, including larger sales forces and technical staff. Competitors may introduce more effective and less costly products and, in doing so, may make it difficult for the Company to acquire and retain customers. If this occurs, the Company’s market share may decline and operating results could suffer. The Company may experience difficulties with obtaining components from sole- or limited-source suppliers, or manufacturing delays, either of which could adversely affect its results of operations. Most raw materials, components and supplies that the Company purchases are available from many suppliers. However, certain items are purchased from sole or limited-source suppliers and a disruption of these sources could adversely affect the Company’s ability to ship products as needed. A prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components would likely reduce product inventory, hinder sales and harm the Company’s reputation with customers. Worldwide demand for certain components may cause the cost of such components to rise or limit the availability of these components, which could have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company manufactures products in its facilities in Germany, the Netherlands and the United States. Any prolonged disruption to the operations at these facilities, whether due to labor unrest, supplier issues, damage to the physical plants or equipment or other reasons, could also adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s executive officers and other key employees are critical to the Company’s business, they may not remain with the Company, in the future and finding talented replacements would be difficult. The operations of Dionex require managerial and technical expertise. Each of the executive officers and key employees located in the United States is employed “at will” and may leave the employment of the Company at any time. In addition, the Company operates in a variety of locations around the world where the demand for qualified personnel may be extremely high and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. As a result, competition for personnel can be intense and the turnover rate for qualified personnel may be high. The loss of any of the Company’s executive officers or key employees could cause the Company to incur increased operating expenses and divert senior management resources in searching for replacements. An inability to hire, train and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees would seriously affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The success of Dionex’s business is dependent in part on protection of proprietary information and inventions. Obtaining and protecting the Company’s proprietary products, processes and technologies can be difficult and expensive. Patent and trade secret protection is important to the Company because developing new technologies and products is time-consuming and expensive. The Company owns many U.S. and foreign patents and intends to apply for additional patents to cover its technology and products. The Company may be unable to obtain issued patents from any pending or future patent applications that it owns. The claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect the Company’s technology. Third parties may seek to challenge, circumvent or invalidate issued patents that the Company owns. In addition to patents, the Company has unpatented proprietary products and know-how. The measures employed by the Company to protect this technology, such as maintaining the confidentiality of proprietary information and relying on trade secret laws, may be inadequate. The Company may incur significant expense in any legal proceedings to protect its proprietary rights. 13 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY The following table lists the names and positions of all current executive officers of the Company, and their ages as of September 11, 2006. There are no family relationships between any director or executive officer of the Company. Executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Name Age Positions Lukas Braunschweiler 50 President and Chief Executive Officer Bruce Barton 47 Vice President David Bow 42 Vice President Kevin Chance 39 Vice President Dietrich Hauffe 47 Vice President Peter Jochum 55 Vice President Craig McCollam 46 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Christopher Pohl 55 Vice President Rene Trost 55 Vice President Dr. Braunschweiler has served as President and Chief Executive Officer and director since joining the company in August 2002. Prior to that time, Dr. Braunschweiler was employed by Mettler-Toledo, a supplier of precision instruments, where he served most recently as Group Vice-President and Head of the Laboratory and Packaging Division. Prior to that, he served in a variety of management positions at Mettler-Toledo. Dr. Braunschweiler will be returning to live in Switzerland prior to the end of calendar year 2006. Dr. Braunschweiler will continue in his current capacities with the Company, primarily operating from Switzerland and the Company’s European facilities, but also spending a substantial portion of his time in the United States. Mr. Barton has served as Vice President of Sales and Service Asia/Pacific since October 2003. Upon joining the Company in 1987, he served in numerous positions in the Sales, Accounting and Finance departments. Previously he held various positions including Head of Distributor Operations as well as Vice President-International Operations. Mr. Bow has served as Vice President of North American Sales, Service and Corporate Marketing since joining the Company in September 2003. Prior to that, he founded and served as President of Genesis Chemicals, Buffers & Biochemicals Corp, GW Incorporated and GenChem GmbH. Mr. Chance has served as Vice President of the Chemical Analysis Business Unit (CABU) since April 2003. From 2000 to 2003 he served as Chief Executive Officer of Aptus Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biotech Company. From 1989 through 2000 he served as a business unit general manager and in various other positions at Siemens Industrial Automation (Moore Products Company), an automation technology provider. Dr. Hauffe has served as Vice President, Marketing since December 2005. Between 2000 and 2005, Mr. Hauffe served as GM of Dionex Idstein, Germany. From 1993 to 1997, Dr. Hauffe served as Product Manager Life Sciences. Dr. Jochum has served as Vice President, Life Sciences Business Unit (LSBU) since October 2000. Prior to that, he served as Managing Director of Dionex Softron since joining the Company in October 1998. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Managing Director of Softron GmbH. Mr. McCollam has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 1999. Prior to that, he served as Director of Finance and Corporate Controller since joining the Company in 1993. Mr. Pohl has served as Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Science Officer since May 2004. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Research and Development since rejoining the Company in June 2001. From March 2000 to June 2001, Mr. Pohl served as Vice President, Research and Development of Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc., a provider of enabling tools for proteomics. From 1981 to 2000, he served as Vice President, Consumables and in various other capacities for the Company. 14 Table of Contents Mr. Trost has served as Vice President European Sales and Service since October 2003. Between 1999 and 2003, Mr. Trost was Manager for Dionex’s European operations. Prior to that, he was the Country Manager for Dionex Switzerland since joining the Company in 1994. Prior to working for the Company, he served with Sarasin Ltd. in Switzerland. 