Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment derives substantially all its revenues from companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. The demand for offshore construction services has traditionally been cyclical, depending primarily on the capital expenditures of oil and gas companies for construction of development projects. These capital expenditures are influenced by such factors as: · prevailing oil and gas prices; · expectations about future prices; · the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; · the sale and expiration dates of available offshore leases; · the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves in offshore areas; · domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; 16 Table of Contents · technological advances; and · the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds for capital expenditures. Prices for oil and gas have historically been extremely volatile and have reacted to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas (including changes resulting from the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to establish and maintain production quotas), domestic and worldwide economic conditions and political instability in oil producing countries. We anticipate prices for oil and natural gas will continue to be volatile and affect the demand for and pricing of our offshore construction services. A material decline in oil or natural gas prices or activities over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the demand for our offshore construction services and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Power Generation Systems segment derives substantially all its revenues from electric power generating companies and other steam-using industries, with demand for its services and products depending on capital expenditures in these historically cyclical industries. The demand for power generation services and products depends primarily on the capital expenditures of electric power generating companies, paper companies and other steam-using industries. These capital expenditures are influenced by such factors as: · prices for electricity, along with the cost of production and distribution; · prices for natural resources such as coal and natural gas; · demand for electricity, paper and other end products of steam-generating facilities; · availability of other sources of electricity, paper or other end products; · requirements for environmental improvements, including potential carbon dioxide (“CO2”) legislation; · level of capacity utilization at operating power plants, paper mills and other steam-using facilities; · requirements for maintenance and upkeep at operating power plants and paper mills to combat the accumulated effects of wear and tear; · ability of electric generating companies and other steam users to raise capital; and · relative prices of fuels used in boilers, compared to prices for fuels used in gas turbines and other alternative forms of generation. A material decline in capital expenditures by electric power generating companies, paper companies and other steam-using industries over a sustained period of time could materially and adversely affect the demand for our power generation services and products and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Government Operations segment is substantially dependent on a single customer. Our Government Operations segment derives substantially all its revenue from the U.S. Government. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the U.S. Government accounted for approximately 89% of this segment’s revenue. Government contracts are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits, which could result in withholding or delaying of payments to us. In addition, some of our large multi-year contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to annual funding determinations. As a result, we are subject to the uncertainties associated with U.S. Government budget restraints and other factors affecting government funding. The termination of one or more of our government contracts, our suspension from government contract work, or the disallowance of a payment of any of our contract costs may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks associated with contractual pricing in our industries, including the risk that, if our actual costs exceed the costs we estimate on our fixed-price contracts, our profitability will decline, and we may suffer losses. Our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction and Power Generation Systems segments are engaged in highly competitive industries, and they have a substantial number of their projects on a fixed-price basis. Our actual costs could exceed our projections. We attempt to cover increased costs of anticipated changes in labor, material and service costs of long-term contracts, either through estimates of cost increases, which are reflected in the original contract price, or through price escalation clauses. Despite these attempts, however, the cost and gross profit we realize on a fixed-price contract could vary materially from the estimated amounts because of supplier, contractor and subcontractor 17 Table of Contents performance, changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity and increases in the cost of raw materials, particularly steel, over the term of the contract. These variations and the risks generally inherent in these industries may result in actual revenues or costs being different from those we originally estimated and may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Some of these risks include: · Our engineering, procurement and construction projects may encounter difficulties in the design or engineering phases, related to the procurement of supplies, and due to schedule changes, equipment performance failures, and other factors that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenue, claims or disputes. · We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work we perform or expenses we incur as a result of customer change orders or our customers providing deficient design or engineering information or equipment or materials. · We may be required to pay liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. · Difficulties in engaging third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers or failures by third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers to perform could result in project delays and cause us to incur additional costs. Our use of percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in volatility in our results of operations. We recognize revenues and profits under our long-term contracts in our segments on a percentage-of-completion basis. Accordingly, we review contract price and cost estimates periodically as the work progresses and reflect adjustments proportionate to the percentage of completion in income in the period when we revise those estimates. To the extent these adjustments result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported profits with respect to a project, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material. Our current estimates of our contract costs and the profitability of our long-term projects, although reasonably reliable when made, could change as a result of the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, and if adjustments to overall contract costs are significant, the reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits could be material in future periods. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations. There can be no assurance that the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Because of project cancellations or changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us or poor project performance could increase the cost associated with a project. Delays, suspensions, cancellations, payment defaults, scope changes and poor project execution could materially reduce the revenues and profits that we actually realize from projects in backlog. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellation or modification by a customer or for other reasons may adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Many of the contracts in our backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel projects. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. However, we typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. We face risks associated with investing in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, including the risk that we may be restricted in our ability to access the cash flows or assets of these entities. We conduct some operations through foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures. We do not manage all of these entities. Even in those joint ventures that we manage, we are often required to consider the interests of our joint venture partners in connection with decisions concerning the operations of the joint ventures. Arrangements involving these subsidiaries and joint ventures may restrict us from gaining access to the cash flows or assets of these entities. In 18 Table of Contents addition, these foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures sometimes face governmentally imposed restrictions on their abilities to transfer funds to us. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our domestic operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from international operations, including customers in the Middle East. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our U.S. operations. These include: · risks of war, terrorism, piracy and civil unrest; · expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our assets; · renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts; · changing political conditions and changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment; · overlap of different tax structures; · risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and · risks associated with the assertion of foreign sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted. Our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment may be particularly susceptible to regional conditions that may adversely affect its operations. Its major marine construction vessels typically require relatively long periods of time to mobilize over long distances, which could affect our ability to withdraw them from areas of conflict. Various foreign jurisdictions have laws limiting the right and ability of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies. Our international operations sometimes face the additional risks of fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange. Our operations are subject to operating risks and limits on insurance coverage, which could expose us to potentially significant liability costs. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in our operations, including: · accidents resulting in injury to or the loss of life or property; · environmental or toxic tort claims, including delayed manifestation claims for personal injury or loss of life; · pollution or other environmental mishaps; · hurricanes, tropical storms and other adverse weather conditions; · mechanical failures; · collisions; · property losses; · business interruption due to political action in foreign countries or other reasons; and · labor stoppages. We have been, and in the future we may be, named as defendants in lawsuits asserting large claims as a result of litigation arising from events such as these. We rely heavily on certain items of equipment, including vessels and heavy manufacturing equipment and our fabrication locations, to execute the work we are hired to perform. If these items became unavailable to us for any reason, including for loss or damage, political or terrorist event or otherwise, we may not be able to timely meet the requirements of our customer contracts and may be in default of our contractual obligations for one or more customers, subjecting us to delay damage claims, including for loss of profits. Insurance against some of the risks inherent in our operations is either unavailable or available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. Also, catastrophic events, such as the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the hurricane losses of 2005, customarily result in decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, additional exclusions in coverage, increased premium costs and increased deductibles and self-insured retentions. Risks that are difficult to insure include, among others, the risk of war and confiscation of property in some areas of the world, losses or liability resulting from acts of terrorism, certain risks relating to construction and pollution liability, property located in certain areas of the world and business interruption. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we endeavor to obtain contractual protection against certain uninsured risks from our customers. When obtained, such contractual indemnification protection may not be as broad as we desire or may not be supported by adequate insurance maintained by the customer. Such insurance or contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective under all 19 Table of Contents circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, upon the February 22, 2006 effectiveness of the settlement relating to the Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, we and most of our subsidiaries contributed substantial insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, including rights to (1) certain pre-1979 primary and excess insurance coverages and (2) certain of our 1979-1986 excess insurance coverage, which 1979-1986 excess policies had an aggregate face value of available limits of coverage of approximately $1.15 billion. These insurance rights provided cover for, among other things, asbestos and other personal injury claims, subject to the terms and conditions of such policies. With the contribution of these insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, we may have underinsured or uninsured exposure for asbestos claims or other personal injury or other claims against subsidiaries not debtors in the Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, for which we would have had insurance rights under these coverages if the insurance rights had not been contributed to the asbestos personal injury trust. Through two of limited liability companies, our Government Operations segment has management and operating agreements with the U.S. Government for the Y-12 and Pantex facilities. Most insurable liabilities arising from these sites are not protected in our corporate insurance program but rely on government contractual agreements and certain specialized self-insurance programs funded by the U.S. Government. The U. S. Government has historically fulfilled its contractual agreement to reimburse for insurable claims, and we expect it to continue this process during our administration of these two facilities. However, it should be noted that, in most situations, the U. S. Government is contractually obligated to pay, subject to the availability of authorized government funds. We have captive insurers which provide certain coverages for our subsidiary entities and related coverages. Claims as a result of our operations, could adversely impact the ability of these captive insurers to respond to all claims presented. Volatility and uncertainty of the credit markets may negatively impact us. We intend to finance our existing operations and initiatives with cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations, and potential borrowings under our credit facilities. If adverse national and international economic conditions continue or deteriorate further, it is possible that we may not be able to fully draw upon our existing credit facilities and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms. In addition, while we believe our current liquidity is adequate for our normal operations and planned capital expenditures in 2009, continued deterioration in the credit markets could adversely affect the ability of many of our customers to pay us on time and the ability of many of our suppliers to meet our needs on a competitive basis. Our credit facilities impose restrictions that could limit our operating and investment flexibility within each of our segments. Each of our three principal operating segments is financed on a stand-alone basis. A significant subsidiary in each of these segments maintains a separate credit facility that permits borrowings for working capital and other needs for itself and other subsidiaries within its segment, as well as letters of credit for projects conducted by it or other subsidiaries within its segment. Each of those credit facilities contains financial and non-financial covenants which, among other things, limit our ability to move capital among our segments. As a result, we are limited in our ability to fund a segment's operating needs and investments in capital projects or acquisitions by the capital resources available within that segment and at our parent company, MII. This limitation could limit our operating and investment flexibility within each segment in the event an operational need or capital investment or acquisition opportunity arises within a segment that requires funding in excess of the amount available to that segment, even where other funding is available within our consolidated group of companies. We depend on significant customers. Our three segments derive a significant amount of their revenues and profits from a relatively small number of customers in a given year. The inability of these segments to continue to perform services for a number of their large existing customers, if not offset by contracts with new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect 20 Table of Contents on our business and operations. Our significant customers include federal government agencies, utilities, and major and national oil and gas companies. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Most industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have greater financial or other resources than we have. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than those of our products and services. This factor is significant to our segments’ businesses where capital investment is critical to our ability to compete. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain trained personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of revenues. Our success depends on the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely affect our operations. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As a result, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our equipment, our operations could be adversely affected. While we believe our wage rates are competitive and our relationships with our employees are satisfactory, a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. If either of these events occurred for a significant period of time, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. A substantial number of our employees are members of labor unions. Although we expect to renew our current union contracts without incident, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable new contracts with our unions in the future, we could experience strikes or other work stoppages by the affected employees, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs attributable to both union and non-union employees. If any such strikes or other work stoppages were to occur, or if our other employees were to become represented by unions, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Our business strategy includes acquisitions to continue our growth. Acquisitions of other businesses can create certain risks and uncertainties. We may pursue growth through the acquisition of businesses or assets that we believe will enable us to strengthen or broaden the types of projects we execute and also expand into new markets. We may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable businesses or assets, reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, an acquisition involves certain risks, including: · difficulties relating to the assimilation of personnel, services and systems of an acquired business and the assimilation of marketing and other operational capabilities; · challenges resulting from unanticipated changes in customer relationships subsequent to acquisition; · additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and internal controls; · assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition transaction was negotiated; · diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; · failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; · potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations; and · potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition. Acquisitions may require us to issue additional equity or obtain debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on potential credit and bonding capacity. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, an acquisition may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced. We are subject to government regulations that may adversely affect our future operations. Many aspects of our operations and properties are affected by political developments and are subject to both domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those relating to: · construction and equipping of production platforms and other offshore facilities; · marine vessel safety; · currency conversions and repatriation; · oil exploration and development; · clean air and other environmental protection legislation; · taxation of foreign earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and · use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. In addition, our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment depends on the demand for its services from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry generally. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing offshore exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic and other policy reasons would adversely affect the operations of our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment by limiting the demand for its services. Our Power Generation Systems segment depends primarily on the demand for its services from electric power generating companies and other steam-using customers. The demand for power generation services and products can be influenced by state and federal governmental legislation setting requirements for utilities related to operations, emissions and environmental impacts. The legislative process is unpredictable and includes a platform that continuously seeks to increase the restrictions on power producers. Potential legislation limiting emissions from power plants, including carbon dioxide, could affect our markets and the demand for our products and services in our Power Generation Systems segment. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations. Environmental laws and regulations and civil liability for contamination of the environment or related personal injuries may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings and cash flow. Governmental requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including solid waste management, air quality, water quality, the decontamination and decommissioning of former nuclear manufacturing and processing facilities and cleanup of contaminated sites, have had a substantial impact on our operations. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. In some cases, they can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate. Such expenditures and liabilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Section H in Item 1 above for further information. In addition, some of our operations and the operations of predecessor owners of some of our properties have exposed us to civil claims by third parties for liability resulting from alleged contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances into the environment. For a discussion of legal proceedings of this nature in which we are currently involved, see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. U.S. coal-fired power plants have been scrutinized by environmental groups and government regulators over the emissions of potentially harmful pollutants. In addition to recent legislation at the state level, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation that would limit greenhouse gas emissions, including CO2. In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has some authority to regulate greenhouse gases under 22 Table of Contents the Clean Air Act. Some plans for coal-fired power plants have recently been cancelled or suspended in several states, although more new coal-fired power plants are being planned to meet the predicted increase in electricity demand. Also, in February 2008, three of the nation’s largest investment banks announced new environmental standards to ensure lenders evaluate risks associated with investments in coal-fired power plants. Such standards could make it potentially more difficult for new U.S. coal-fired power plants to secure financing. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one or more of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting and various other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that are related to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or our 1976 Consent Decree. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials. We are also subject to a Consent Decree entered into in 1976 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The 1976 Consent Decree forbids us, among other things, from making payments in the nature of a commercial bribe to any customer or supplier to induce the purchase or sale of goods, services or supplies. Our training program and policies mandate compliance with the FCPA and the 1976 Consent Decree. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA or 1976 Consent Decree violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. You should note that the design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based in part upon various assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We depend on our information technology systems for many aspects of our business. Our business may be adversely affected if our systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand our systems to meet our changing needs. Any damage, delay or loss of critical data associated with our systems may delay or prevent certain operations and may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to other risks, including legal proceedings that we discuss in other sections of this annual report. For discussions of various factors that affect the demand for our products and services in our segments, see the discussions under the heading “Business Segments” in Item 1 above. For a discussion of our insurance coverages and uninsured exposures, see the discussions under the heading “Insurance” in Item 1 above. For discussions of various legal proceedings in which we are involved, in addition to those we refer to above, see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. The war in Iraq and subsequent terrorist attacks and unrest have caused instability in the world’s financial and commercial markets, have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. The continuing instability and unrest in Iraq, as well as threats of war or other armed conflict elsewhere, may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and contribute to even higher levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. In addition, the continued unrest in Iraq could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Also, acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate, such as the Middle East and Indonesia, could limit or disrupt our markets and operations, including disruptions from evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel or assets. Armed conflicts, terrorism and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 24 Table of Contents Item 