Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Marine Construction Services segment derives substantially all its revenues from companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. The demand for marine construction services has traditionally been cyclical, depending primarily on the capital expenditures of oil and gas companies for construction of development projects. These capital expenditures are influenced by such factors as: • prevailing oil and gas prices; • expectations about future prices; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the sale and expiration dates of available offshore leases; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves in offshore areas; • domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; • technological advances; and • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds for capital expenditures. Prices for oil and gas historically have been extremely volatile and have reacted to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas (including changes resulting from the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to establish and maintain production quotas), domestic and worldwide economic conditions and political instability in oil producing countries. We anticipate prices for oil and natural gas will continue to be volatile and affect the demand for and pricing of our marine construction services. A material decline in oil or natural gas prices or activities over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the demand for our marine construction services and, therefore, our results of operations and financial condition. Our Power Generation Systems segment derives substantially all its revenues from electric power generating companies, paper companies and other steam-using industries, with demand for its services and products depending on capital expenditures in these historically cyclical industries. The demand for power generation services and products depends primarily on the capital expenditures of electric power generating companies, paper companies and other steam-using industries. These capital expenditures are influenced by such factors as: • prices for electricity and paper, along with the cost of production and distribution; • prices for natural resources such as coal and natural gas; • demand for electricity, paper and other end products of steam-generating facilities; • availability of other sources of electricity, paper or other end products; • requirements for environmental improvements; • level of capacity utilization at operating power plants, paper mills and other steam-using facilities; 19 Table of Contents • requirements for maintenance and upkeep at operating power plants and paper mills to combat the accumulated effects of wear and tear; • ability of electric generating companies and other steam users to raise capital; and • relative prices of fuels used in boilers, compared to prices for fuels used in gas turbines and other alternative forms of generation. A material decline in capital expenditures by electric power generating companies, paper companies and other steam-using industries over a sustained period of time could materially and adversely affect the demand for our power-generation services and products and our results of operations and financial condition. War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. The war in Iraq and subsequent terrorist attacks and unrest have caused instability in the world’s financial and commercial markets, have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. The continuing instability and unrest in Iraq, as well as threats of war or other armed conflict elsewhere, may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and contribute to even higher levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. In addition, the continued unrest in Iraq could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. In addition, acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate, such as the Middle East and Indonesia, could limit or disrupt our markets and operations, including disruptions from evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel or assets. Armed conflicts, terrorism and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. We are subject to risks associated with contractual pricing in our industries, including the risk that, if our actual costs exceed the costs we estimate on our fixed-price contracts, our profitability will decline and we may suffer losses. Because of the highly competitive nature of the offshore marine construction industry, our Marine Construction Services segment performs a substantial number of its projects on a fixed-price basis. We attempt to cover increased costs of anticipated changes in labor, material and service costs of long-term contracts, either through estimates of cost increases, which are reflected in the original contract price, or through price escalation clauses. Despite these attempts, however, the revenue, cost and gross profit we realize on a fixed-price contract could vary from the estimated amounts because of changes in job conditions and variations in labor and equipment productivity over the term of the contract. These variations and the risks generally inherent in the marine construction industry may result in actual revenues or costs being different from those we originally estimated and may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. During 2003, our Marine Construction Services segment experienced material losses on three of our Spar projects, Medusa, Devils Tower and Front Runner; the Carina Aries project; and the Belanak FPSO project. These contracts contained first-of-a-kind aspects for JRM, and were long-term in nature. We experienced schedule delays and cost overruns on these contracts that adversely impacted our financial results and liquidity. In addition, we recognize revenues under our long-term contracts in our segments on a percentage-of-completion basis. Accordingly, we review contract price and cost estimates periodically as the work progresses and reflect adjustments proportionate to the percentage of completion in income in the period when we revise those estimates. To the extent these adjustments result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported profits with respect to a project, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material. Our current estimates of our contract costs and the profitability of our long-term projects could change, and adjustments to overall contract costs may continue to be significant in future periods. As a result of the settlement of the B&W Chapter 11 proceedings, we have incurred significant future payment obligations that could adversely affect our liquidity. Under the terms of the Settlement, if the FAIR Act, or other similar legislation addressing resolution of asbestos claims, does not become law on or before November 30, 2006, or does become law but then becomes subject to a proceeding on or before January 31, 2007 which leads to a judicial decision that such legislation is unconstitutional as applied to Chapter 11 debtors similarly situated to B&W as of September 1, 2005, MI will be obligated to make, 20 Table of Contents or to cause one of its subsidiaries to make, a $355 million cash payment to the Asbestos PI Trust and the entire $250 million principal amount of the B&W Note will be payable evenly over five years. We anticipate that the $355 million contingent cash payment, if required, would be funded by available cash, share issuances and/or debt. MI may not be able to obtain any additional financing that is required to fund the payment on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, any indebtedness incurred to fund this cash payment, along with the $250 million B&W Note, would represent significant additional indebtedness for us on a consolidated basis. While our management believes that, even with the addition of these new obligations, our consolidated indebtedness is reasonable in relation to our capitalization and working capital position, the increased level of indebtedness and other payment obligations has increased our vulnerability to cyclical declines in our businesses. Pending pension funding reform legislation could have an impact on funding requirements for our pension plans. Congress is presently reviewing potential legislation which contains proposals for reforms regarding the funding requirements for pension plans. While we can not predict when or if any reform legislation will become law, nor the specific impact of any such legislation, we believe that the proposed legislation, in its current form, would (if enacted) require us to increase our future pension funding requirements. We face risks associated with investing in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, including the risk that we may be restricted in our ability to access the cash flows or assets of these entities. We conduct some operations through foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures. We do not manage all of these entities. Even in those joint ventures that we manage, we are often required to consider the interests of our joint venture partners in connection with decisions concerning the operations of the joint ventures. Arrangements involving these subsidiaries and joint ventures may restrict us from gaining access to the cash flows or assets of these entities. In addition, these foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures sometimes face governmentally imposed restrictions on their abilities to transfer funds to us. At December 31, 2005, JRM had approximately $63 million in accounts and notes receivable due from one of its joint ventures in Mexico. The note receivable is attributable to the sale of JRM’s DB17 vessel during the quarter ended September 30, 2004. In addition, JRM also had approximately $16 million in currency translation losses associated with this joint venture in accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2005. This joint venture has previously and continues to experience liquidity problems. JRM is presently experiencing delays in collection of and ultimate realization of its receivables from this joint venture. Recognition of a gain of approximately $5.4 million on the sale of the DB17 is currently being deferred. See Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report for further information on JRM’s Mexican operations. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in our domestic operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from international operations, including customers in the Middle East. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our U.S. operations. These include: • risks of war, terrorism and civil unrest; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our assets; • renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts; • changing political conditions and changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment; • the overlap of different tax structures; and • the risks associated with the assertion of foreign sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted. Our Marine Construction Services segment may be particularly susceptible to regional conditions that may adversely affect its operations. Its major marine construction vessels typically require relatively long periods of time to mobilize over long distances, which could affect our ability to withdraw them from areas of conflict. Additionally, various foreign jurisdictions have laws limiting the right and ability of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures to pay 21 Table of Contents dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies. Our international operations sometimes face the additional risks of fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange. Our operations are subject to operating risks and limits on insurance coverage, which could expose us to potentially significant liability costs. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in our operations, including: • accidents resulting in injury to or the loss of life or property; • environmental or toxic tort claims, including delayed manifestation claims for personal injury or loss of life; • pollution or other environmental mishaps; • hurricanes, tropical storms and other adverse weather conditions; • mechanical failures; • collisions; • property losses; • business interruption due to political action in foreign countries; and • labor stoppages. We have been, and in the future we may be, named as defendants in lawsuits asserting large claims as a result of litigation arising from events such as these. Insurance against some of the risks inherent in our operations is either unavailable or available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. This has particularly been the case following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C., which led to significant changes in various insurance markets, including decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, additional exclusions in coverage, increased premium costs, and increased deductibles and self-insured retentions. These changes were in addition to similar changes we had seen in certain markets prior to September 11, 2001. Risks that are difficult to insure include, among others, the risk of war and confiscation of property in some areas of the world, losses or liability resulting from acts of terrorism, certain risks relating to construction, and pollution liability. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we endeavor to obtain contractual protection against uninsured risks from our customers. When obtained, such contractual indemnification protection may not in all cases be supported by adequate insurance maintained by the customer. Such insurance or contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, upon the February 22, 2006 effectiveness of the settlement of Chapter 11 proceedings of B&W and its affiliated debtor subsidiaries, MII and most of its subsidiaries contributed substantial insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, including rights to (1) certain B&W pre-1979 primary and excess insurance coverages; and (2) certain 1979-1986 excess insurance coverage of MII and its affiliates, including JRM, MI, BWICO, BWXT and B&W, which 1979-1986 excess policies have an aggregate face value of available limits of coverage of approximately $1.15 billion. These insurance rights provided cover for, among other things, asbestos and other personal injury claims, subject to the terms and conditions of such policies. With the contribution of these insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, MII and its affiliates, including JRM, MI, BWICO, BWXT and B&W, may have underinsured or uninsured exposure for non-B&W-derivative asbestos claims or other personal injury or other claims that would have been insured under these coverages had the insurance rights not been contributed to the asbestos personal injury trust. BWXT, through two of its dedicated limited liability companies, has management and operating agreements with the U.S. Government for the Y-12 and the Pantex facilities. Most insurable liabilities arising from these sites are not protected in our corporate insurance program but rely on government contractual agreements and certain specialized self-insurance programs funded by the U.S. Government. The U. S. Government has historically fulfilled its contractual agreement to reimburse for insurable claims and we expect it to continue this process during our administration of these two facilities. However, it should be noted that, in most situations, the U. S. Government is contractually obligated to pay, subject to the availability of authorized government funds. We have captive insurers which provide certain coverages for our subsidiary entities and related coverages. Claims as a result of our operations, could adversely impact the ability of these captive insurers to respond to all claims presented, although we believe such a result is unlikely. 22 Table of Contents We depend on significant customers, including the U.S. Government. Our three segments derive a significant amount of their revenues and profits from a small number of customers. The inability of these segments to continue to perform services for a number of their large existing customers, if not offset by contracts with new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our significant customers include state and federal government agencies and utilities. In particular, our Government Operations segment derives substantially all its revenue from the U.S. Government. Some of our large multiyear contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to annual funding determinations. State and U.S. Government budget restraints and other factors affecting these governments may adversely affect our business. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Most industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have greater financial or other resources than we have. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than those of our products and services. This factor is significant to our Marine Construction Services business, where capital investment is critical to our ability to compete. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain trained personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of revenues. Our success depends on the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel. The loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely affect our operations. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As a result, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our equipment, our operations could be adversely affected. While we believe our wage rates are competitive and our relationships with our employees are satisfactory, a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. If either of these events occurred for a significant period of time, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. A substantial number of our employees are members of labor unions. Although we expect to renew our union contracts without incident, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable new contracts with our unions in the future, we could experience strikes or other work stoppages by the affected employees, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs attributable to both union and non-union employees. If any such strikes or other work stoppages were to occur, or if our other employees were to become represented by unions, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. We are subject to government regulations that may adversely affect our future operations. Many aspects of our operations and properties are affected by political developments and are subject to both domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those relating to: • construction and equipping of production platforms and other marine facilities; • marine vessel safety; • currency conversions and repatriation; • oil exploration and development; • taxation of foreign earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and • use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. In addition, our Marine Construction Services segment depends on the demand for its services from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil 23 Table of Contents and gas industry generally. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing offshore exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic and other policy reasons would adversely affect the operations of our Marine Construction Services segment by limiting the demand for its services. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations. Environmental laws and regulations and civil liability for contamination of the environment or related personal injuries may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings and cash flow. Governmental requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including solid waste management, air quality, water quality, the decontamination and decommissioning of former nuclear manufacturing and processing facilities and cleanup of contaminated sites, have had a substantial impact on our operations. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. In some cases, they can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate. Such expenditures and liabilities may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. See Section H above for further information. In addition, some of our operations and the operations of predecessor owners of some of our properties have exposed us to civil claims by third parties for liability resulting from contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances into the environment. For a discussion of civil proceedings of this nature in which we are currently involved, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. You should note that the design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based in part upon various assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. We are subject to other risks including legal proceedings that we discuss in other sections of this annual report. For discussions of various factors that affect the demand for our products and services in our segments, see the discussions under the heading “Factors Affecting Demand” in each of Sections B, C, and D of Item 1 above. For a discussion of our insurance coverages and uninsured exposures, see Section G of Item 1above. For discussions of various legal proceedings in which we are involved, in addition to those we refer to above, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. In addition to the risks we describe or refer to above, we are subject to other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, including those we have referred to under the heading “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” in Section J of Item 1above. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 