Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report. If any of these risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risk Factors Related to Our Business We derive substantially all of our revenues from companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. The demand for our EPCI services has traditionally been cyclical, depending primarily on the capital expenditures of oil and gas companies for construction of development projects. These capital expenditures are influenced by such factors as: • prevailing oil and gas prices; • expectations about future prices; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the sale and expiration dates of available offshore leases; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves, including in offshore areas; • the rate of decline of existing oil and gas reserves; • laws and regulations related to environmental matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate change; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources; • domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; • technological advances; and • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds for capital expenditures. Prices for oil and gas have historically been extremely volatile and have reacted to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas (including changes resulting from the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to establish and maintain production quotas), domestic and worldwide economic conditions and political instability in oil producing countries. We anticipate oil and natural gas prices will continue to be volatile and affect the demand for and pricing of our EPCI services. A material decline in oil or natural gas prices or activities over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the demand for our services and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with contractual pricing in our industry, including the risk that, if our actual costs exceed the costs we estimate on our fixed-price contracts, our profitability will decline, and we may suffer losses. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry, and we have contracted for a substantial number of projects on a fixed-price basis. In many cases, these projects involve complex design and engineering, significant procurement of equipment and supplies and extensive construction management and other activities conducted over extended time periods, sometimes in remote locations. Our actual costs related to these projects could exceed our projections. We attempt to cover the increased costs of anticipated changes in labor, material and service costs of long-term contracts, either through estimates of cost increases, which are reflected in the original contract price, or through price escalation clauses. Despite these attempts, however, the cost and gross profit we realize on a fixed-price contract could vary materially from the estimated amounts because of supplier, contractor and subcontractor performance, our own performance, changes in job conditions, unanticipated weather conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity and increases in the cost of raw materials, particularly steel, over the term of the contract. These variations and the risks generally inherent in the industry in which we operate may result in actual revenues or costs being different from those we originally estimated and may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Some of these risks include: • Our engineering, procurement and construction projects may encounter difficulties related to the procurement of materials, or due to schedule disruptions, equipment performance failures or other factors that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenue, claims or disputes. • We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work we perform or expenses we incur as a result of customer change orders or our customers providing deficient design or engineering information or equipment or materials. • We may be required to pay significant amounts of liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. • Difficulties in engaging third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers or failures by third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers to perform could result in project delays and cause us to incur additional costs. Performance problems relating to any significant existing or future contract arising as a result of any of these or other risks could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those we anticipate at the time we enter into the contract and could cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within our industry and our customer base. Our use of percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in volatility in our results of operations. We recognize revenues and profits from our long-term contracts using the percentage-of-completion basis of accounting. Accordingly, we review contract price and cost estimates periodically as the work progresses and reflect adjustments proportionate to the percentage of completion in income in the period when we revise those estimates. To the extent these adjustments result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported profits with respect to a project, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material. Our current estimates of our contract costs and the profitability of our long-term projects, although reasonably reliable when made, could change as a result of the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, and if adjustments to overall contract costs are significant, the reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits could be material in future periods. In addition, change orders, which are a normal and recurring part of our business, can increase (and sometimes substantially) the future scope and cost of a job. Therefore, change order awards (although frequently beneficial in the long term) can have the short-term effect of reducing the job percentage of completion and thus the revenues and profits that otherwise would be recognized to date. 14 Table of Contents Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations. The revenues projected in our backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. Because of project cancellations or changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us or poor project performance could increase the cost associated with a project. Delays, suspensions, cancellations, payment defaults, scope changes and poor project execution could materially reduce the revenues and reduce or eliminate profits that we actually realize from projects in backlog. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellation or modification by a customer or for other reasons may adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Many of the contracts in our backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel projects. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. However, we typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. We have a substantial investment in our marine fleet. At times, a vessel or several vessels may require increased levels of maintenance and capital expenditures, may be less efficient than competitors’ vessels for certain projects, and may experience mechanical failure with the inability to economically return to service. If we are unable to manage our fleet efficiently and find profitable market opportunities for our vessels, our results of operations may deteriorate and our financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. We operate a fleet of construction and multi-service vessels of varying ages. Some of our competitors’ fleets and competing vessels in those fleets may be substantially newer than ours and more technologically advanced. Our vessels may not be capable of serving all markets and may require additional maintenance and capital expenditures, due to age or other factors, creating periods of downtime. In addition, customer requirements and laws of various jurisdictions may limit the use of older vessels or a foreign-flagged vessel, unless we are able to obtain an exception to such requirements and laws, which may not be available. Our ability to continue to upgrade our fleet depends on our ability to economically commission the construction of new vessels, as well as the availability to purchase in the secondary market newer, more technologically advanced vessels with the capabilities that may be required by our customers. If we are unable to manage our fleet efficiently and find profitable market opportunities for our vessels, our results of operations may deteriorate and our financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. Vessel construction, upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We expect to make significant new construction and/or upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our vessel fleet from time to time, particularly in light of the aging nature of our vessels and requests for upgraded equipment from our customers. Some of these expenditures may be unplanned. Vessel construction, upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects may be subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns, including delays or cost overruns resulting from any one or more of the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts or materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • shipyard delays and performance issues; 15 Table of Contents • failures or delays of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • work stoppages and other labor disputes; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • design and engineering problems; • latent damages or deterioration to equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; • interference from adverse weather conditions; • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; and • customer acceptance delays. Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for vessel upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. The failure to complete such a project on time, or the inability to complete it in accordance with its design specifications, may, in some circumstances, result in loss of revenues, penalties, or delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a contract. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms. Moreover, our vessels undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair activities may not earn revenue during periods when they are out of service. A change in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on us by substantially increasing our corporate income taxes and, consequently, decreasing our future net income and increasing our future cash outlays for taxes. As a result of our reorganization in 1982, MII is a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama. Tax legislative proposals intending to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies that have legal domiciles outside the U.S. but operate in the U.S. through one or more subsidiaries have been introduced in the U.S. Congress in recent years. Recent examples include, but are not limited to, legislative proposals that would broaden the circumstances in which a non-U.S. company would be considered a U.S. resident for U.S. tax purposes. It is possible that, if legislation were to be enacted in this area, we could be subject to a substantial increase in our corporate income taxes and, consequently, decrease our future net income and increase our future cash outlays for taxes. We are unable to predict the form in which any proposed legislation might become law or the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any such future legislative enactments. We face risks associated with investing in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, including the risks that the joint venture may not be able to effectively or efficiently manage its operations and that we may be restricted in our ability to access the cash flows or assets of these entities. We conduct some operations through foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures. We do not manage all of our joint ventures. Even in those joint ventures that we manage, we may be required to consider the interests of the other joint venture participants in connection with decisions concerning the operations of the joint ventures, which in our belief may not be as efficient or effective as in our wholly owned subsidiaries. We may experience difficulties relating to the assimilation of personnel, services and systems in the joint venture operations. Any failure to efficiently and effectively operate with our joint venture partners may cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of entering into the joint venture and could adversely affect our operating results for the joint venture. Additionally, our foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures sometimes face governmentally imposed 16 Table of Contents restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to us. As a result, arrangements involving foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures may restrict us from gaining access to the cash flows or assets of these entities. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from international operations. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties. These include: • risks of war, terrorism, piracy and civil unrest; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our assets; • renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts; • changing political conditions and changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment; • overlap of different tax structures; • risk of changes in currency exchange rates; and • risks associated with the assertion of national sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted. We also may be particularly susceptible to regional conditions that may adversely affect our operations. Our major marine construction vessels typically require relatively long periods of time to mobilize over long distances, which could affect our ability to withdraw them from areas of conflict. Additionally, certain of our fabrication facilities are located in regions where conflicts may occur and limit or disrupt our operations. Recent events in the Middle East highlight the risk that conflicts could have a material adverse impact on both the markets we serve and our operating capabilities in this region. Similar or more significant events could also take place in these and other regions in which we operate and could limit or disrupt our markets and operations, including disruption from evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel or assets. Certain of our insurance coverages could also be cancelled by our insurers. The impacts of these risks are very difficult to cost effectively mitigate or insure against and, in the event of a significant event impacting the operations of one or more of our fabrication facilities, we will very likely not be able to timely replicate the fabrication capacity needed to meet existing contractual commitments, given the time and cost involved in doing so. Any failure by us to meet our material contractual commitments could give rise to loss of revenues, claims by customers, loss of future business opportunities and other issues, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Various foreign jurisdictions have laws limiting the right and ability of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies. Our international operations sometimes face the additional risks of fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange. Foreign exchange risks and fluctuations may affect our profitability on certain projects. We operate on a worldwide basis with substantial operations outside the U.S. that subject us to currency exchange risks. In order to manage some of the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates, we enter into foreign currency derivative (hedging) instruments, especially when there is currency risk exposure that is not naturally mitigated via our contracts. However, these actions may not always eliminate all currency risk exposure, in particular for our long-term contracts. A disruption in the foreign currency markets, including the markets with respect to any particular currencies, such as the Euro, could adversely affect our hedging instruments and subject us to additional currency risk exposure. Based on fluctuations in currency, the U.S. dollar value of our backlog may from time to time increase or decrease significantly. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. Our operational cash flows and cash balances, though predominately held in U.S. dollars, may consist of different currencies at various points in time in order to execute our project contracts globally and meet transactional requirements. Non-U.S. asset and liability balances are subject to currency fluctuations when measured period to period for financial reporting purposes in U.S. dollars. 17 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to operating risks and limits on insurance coverage, which could expose us to potentially significant liabilities and costs. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in our operations, including: • accidents resulting in injury or the loss of life or property; • environmental or toxic tort claims, including delayed manifestation claims for personal injury or loss of life; • pollution or other environmental mishaps; • hurricanes, tropical storms and other adverse weather conditions; • mechanical failures; • collisions; • property losses; • business interruption due to political action in foreign countries or other reasons; and • labor stoppages. We have been, and in the future we may be, named as defendants in lawsuits asserting large claims as a result of litigation arising from events such as these. Insurance against some of the risks inherent in our operations is either unavailable or available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. Also, catastrophic events customarily result in decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, additional exclusions in coverage, increased premium costs and increased deductibles and self-insured retentions. Risks that we have frequently found difficult to cost-effectively insure against include, but are not limited to, business interruption (including from the loss of or damage to a vessel), property losses from wind, flood and earthquake events, war and confiscation or seizure of property (including by act of piracy), pollution liability, liabilities related to occupational health exposures (including asbestos), professional liability/errors and omissions coverage, coverage for costs incurred for investigations related to alleged breaches of laws or regulations, the failure, misuse or unavailability of our information systems or security measures related to those systems, and liability related to risk of loss of our work in progress and customer-owned materials in our care, custody and control. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we endeavor to obtain contractual protection against certain uninsured risks from our customers. When obtained, such contractual indemnification protection may not be as broad as we desire or may not be supported by adequate insurance maintained by the customer. Such insurance or contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not insured, for which we are underinsured or for which our contractual indemnity protection is insufficient could have a material adverse effect on us. We have a captive insurance company subsidiary which provides us with various insurance coverages. Claims could adversely impact the ability of our captive insurance company subsidiary to respond to all claims presented. Additionally, upon the February 22, 2006 effectiveness of the settlement relating to the Chapter 11 proceedings involving several subsidiaries of our former subsidiary B&W, most of our subsidiaries contributed substantial insurance rights providing coverage for, among other things, asbestos and other personal injury claims, to the asbestos personal injury trust. With the contribution of these insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, we may have underinsured or uninsured exposure for non-derivative asbestos claims or other personal injury or other claims that would have been insured under these coverages had the insurance rights not been contributed to the asbestos personal injury trust. 18 Table of Contents Volatility and uncertainty of the financial markets may negatively impact us. We intend to finance our existing operations and initiatives, primarily with cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations, and borrowings under our credit facility. We also enter into various financial derivative contracts, including foreign currency forward contracts with banks and institutions represented in our credit facility, to manage our foreign exchange rate risk. In addition, we maintain our cash balances and short-term investments in accounts held by major banks and financial institutions located primarily in North America, Europe and Asia, and some of those accounts hold deposits that exceed available insurance. During the global economic downturn that began in 2007, the financial markets and the financial services industry experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. government. If national and international economic conditions deteriorate, it is possible that we may not be able to fully draw upon our existing credit facility and we may not be able to obtain alternative financing on favorable terms. It is possible that one or more of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and investments could become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings. As a result, we could be at risk of not being able to access material amounts of our cash, which could result in a temporary liquidity crisis that could impede our ability to fund operations. A deterioration in the credit markets could adversely affect the ability of many of our customers to pursue new projects requiring our services or to pay us on time and the ability of many of our suppliers to meet our needs on a competitive basis. Our financial derivative contracts involve credit risk associated with our hedging counterparties, and a deterioration in the financial markets, including the markets with respect to any particular currencies, such as the Euro, could adversely affect our hedging counterparties and their abilities to fulfill their obligations to us. Our credit facility imposes restrictions that could limit our operating and investment flexibility. We maintain a credit facility that permits borrowings for working capital and other needs, as well as letters of credit for projects. The terms of our credit facility impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have adverse consequences, including: • limiting our ability to react to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. Maintaining adequate letter of credit capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win various contracts. In line with industry practice, we are often required to post standby letters of credit to customers. These letters of credit generally indemnify customers should we fail to perform our obligations under the applicable contracts. If a letter of credit is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain it due to insufficient liquidity or other reasons, we may not be able to pursue that project. We have limited capacity under our credit facility for letters of credit. Moreover, due to events that affect the credit markets generally, letters of credit may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. Letters of credit may not continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate letters of credit and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a relatively small number of customers. We derive a significant amount of our revenues and profits from a relatively small number of customers in a given year. Our inability to continue to perform services for a number of these large existing customers, if not 19 Table of Contents offset by contracts with new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our significant customers include major integrated and national oil and gas companies. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have greater financial or other resources than we have. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new facility designs or improvements to engineering, construction or installation services. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain trained personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of revenues. Our success depends on the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely affect our operations. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As such, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our businesses, our operations could be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. If either of these events occurred for a significant period of time, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Pension expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending on changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance of plan assets and legislative or other regulatory actions. A substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs and funding requirements of which depend on our various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit-related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. Variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. Our business strategy includes acquisitions to continue our growth. Acquisitions of other businesses can create certain risks and uncertainties. We intend to pursue growth through the acquisition of businesses or assets that we believe will enable us to strengthen or broaden the types of projects we execute and also expand into new industries and regions. We may be unable to continue this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable businesses or assets, reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, business or asset acquisitions involve certain risks, including: • difficulties relating to the assimilation of personnel, services and systems of an acquired business and the assimilation of marketing and other operational capabilities; • challenges resulting from unanticipated changes in customer relationships subsequent to an acquisition; • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and internal controls; 20 Table of Contents • assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition transaction was negotiated; • diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations; and • potential impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition. Acquisitions may be funded by the issuance of additional equity or new debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on potential credit and bonding capacity. Additionally, an acquisition may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have historically experienced. We rely on intellectual property law and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on intellectual property we license from third parties. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or our inability to obtain or renew licenses to use intellectual property of third parties, could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. Our intellectual property could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries where we operate. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or adversely affect our competitive business position. We rely significantly on proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not subject to patent or copyright protection. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors or other parties, as well as through other security measures. These agreements and security measures may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to protect our intellectual property. Litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management’s attention away from other aspects of our business. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of third parties. In the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We are subject to government regulations that may adversely affect our future operations. Many aspects of our operations and properties are affected by political developments and are subject to both domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those relating to: • constructing and equipping of production platforms and other offshore facilities; • marine vessel safety; • currency conversions and repatriation; • oil exploration and development; 21 Table of Contents • clean air and other environmental protection legislation; • taxation of foreign earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and • use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. In addition, we depend on the demand for our services from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, we are generally affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing offshore exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic and other policy reasons would adversely affect our operations by limiting the demand for our services. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations. Environmental laws and regulations and civil liability for contamination of the environment or related personal injuries may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings and cash flow. Governmental requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including solid waste management, air quality, water quality and cleanup of contaminated sites, have had a substantial impact on our operations. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. In some cases, they can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate. Such expenditures and liabilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Governmental Regulations and Environmental Matters—Environmental” in Item 1 above for further information. Our businesses require us to obtain and to comply with government permits and approvals. Our businesses are required to obtain, and to comply with, government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals may adversely affect our operations by temporarily suspending our activities or curtailing our work and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although existing licenses are routinely renewed by various regulators, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including: • failure to provide adequate financial assurance for closure; • failure to comply with environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; • local community, political or other opposition; • executive action; and • legislative action. In addition, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or implemented, or existing laws or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we may be required to obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Our inability to obtain, and to comply with, the permits and approvals required for our businesses could have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Table of Contents Recently adopted regulations related to “conflict minerals” could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (“Dodd-Frank Act”) contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (collectively, the “Covered Countries”). The term “conflict minerals” encompasses tantalum, tin, tungsten (and their ores) and gold. In August 2012, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements applicable to any company that files periodic public reports with the SEC, if any conflicts minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that company. These new annual reporting requirements, which require companies to describe reasonable country of origin inquiries, due diligence measures, the results of those activities and related determinations, will become applicable beginning in May 2014. Because we have a highly complex, multi-layered supply chain, we may incur significant costs if required to comply with these new disclosures. In addition, the implementation of procedures to comply with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials, including components, used in our products. Our suppliers (or suppliers to our suppliers) may not be able or willing to provide all requested information or to take other steps necessary to ensure that no conflict minerals financing or benefiting armed groups are included in materials or components supplied to us for our manufacturing purposes. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals necessary to the functionality or production of our products through the procedures we may implement. Also, we may encounter challenges to satisfy customers that may require all of the components of products purchased by them to be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer certification requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier. In addition, since the applicability of the new conflict minerals requirements is limited to companies that file periodic reports with the SEC, not all of our competitors will need to comply with these requirements unless they are imposed by customers. As a result, those competitors may have cost and other advantages over us. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, lead to the suspension of our operations and result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one or more of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting and various other applicable laws or regulations. The precautions we take to prevent and detect fraud, misconduct or failures to comply with applicable laws and regulations may not be effective. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of fraud or misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, lead to the suspension of operations and result in reduced revenues and profits. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws or our 1976 Consent Decree. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. These laws include the U.K. Bribery Act, which is broader in scope than the FCPA, as it contains no facilitating payments exception. Additionally, in 1976 we entered into a consent decree with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission which, among other things, forbids us from making payments in the nature of a commercial bribe to any customer or supplier to induce the purchase or sale 23 Table of Contents of goods, services or supplies. We operate in some countries that international corruption monitoring groups have identified as having high levels of corruption. Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Our training program and policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and the 1976 Consent Decree. Although we have policies, procedures and internal controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from governmental investigations or inquiries surrounding actions of our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws or of the 1976 Consent Decree (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We continue to evaluate potential replacements of existing key financial and human resources legacy systems with new enterprise systems. This potential implementation subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our possible systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations. This disruption and any other information technology system disruptions and our ability to mitigate those disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our results of operations could be affected by natural disasters in locations in which we and our customers operate. Our customers have operations in locations that are subject to natural disasters, such as flooding, hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, or a combination of such disasters, such as the events experienced in Japan in 2011. The occurrence of any of these events and the impacts of such events could disrupt and adversely affect the operations of our customers and suppliers as well as our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur. War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. War, terrorist attacks and unrest have caused and may continue to cause instability in the world’s financial and commercial markets, have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. Instability and unrest in the Middle East and Afghanistan, as well as threats of war or other armed conflict elsewhere, may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and contribute to even higher levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. In addition, unrest in the Middle East and Afghanistan could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Also, acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate, such as the Middle East and Indonesia, could limit or disrupt our markets and operations, including disruptions from evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel or assets. Armed conflicts, terrorism and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. In connection with the spin-off, B&W agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, the indemnity from B&W may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and B&W’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations may be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the master separation agreement we entered into with B&W, B&W agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that B&W 24 Table of Contents assumed. In addition, the indemnity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and B&W may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations to us. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from B&W any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The spin-off could result in substantial tax liability. We obtained a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions qualified under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). If the factual assumptions or representations made in the request for the private letter ruling prove to have been inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. The private letter ruling was based on representations by us that those requirements were satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. In connection with the spin-off, we also obtained an opinion of outside counsel, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions qualified under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Code. The opinion relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by B&W and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts would not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion, certain transactions related to the spin-off were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, B&W would be treated as if it had sold part of its assets (which were retained by us) in a taxable sale for fair market value and we would be treated as receiving such assets from B&W as a taxable dividend. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into with B&W in connection with the spin-off, B&W is generally responsible for any taxes imposed on B&W or us and our subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment. However, if the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or our subsidiaries, a subsidiary of ours would be responsible for all such taxes. If we were to become liable for taxes under the tax sharing agreement, that liability could have a material adverse effect on us. Provisions in our corporate documents and Panamanian law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The existence of some provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Panamanian law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: • providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; • limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; • restricting the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent, rather than at a meeting of the stockholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our articles of incorporation and by-laws; 25 Table of Contents • authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, we are registered with the Panamanian National Securities Commission (the “PNSC”) and, as a result, we are subject to Decree No. 45 of December 5, 1977, of the Republic of Panama, as amended (the “Decree”). The Decree imposes certain restrictions on offers to acquire voting securities of a company registered with the PNSC if, following such an acquisition, the acquiror would own directly or indirectly more than 5% of the outstanding voting securities (or securities convertible into voting securities) of such company, with a market value of at least five million Balboas (approximately $5.0 million). Under the Decree, any such offeror would be required to provide McDermott with a declaration stating, among other things, the identity and background of the offeror, the source and amount of funds to be used in the proposed transaction and the offeror’s plans with respect to McDermott. In that event, the PNSC may, at our request, hold a public hearing as to the adequacy of the disclosure provided by the offeror. Following such a hearing, the PNSC would either determine that full and fair disclosure had been provided and that the offeror had complied with the Decree or prohibit the offeror from proceeding with the offer until it has furnished the required information and fully complied with the Decree. Under the Decree, such a proposed transaction cannot be consummated until 45 days after the delivery of the required declaration prepared or supplemented in a complete and accurate manner, and our board of directors may, in its discretion, within 15 days of receiving a complete and accurate declaration, elect to submit the transaction to a vote of our stockholders. In that case, the transaction could not proceed until approved by the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting held within 30 days of the date it is called. If such a vote is obtained, the shares held by the offeror would be required to be voted in the same proportion as all other shares that are voted in favor of or against the offer. If the stockholders approved the transaction, it would have to be consummated within 60 days following the date of that approval. The Decree provides for a civil right of action by stockholders against an offeror who does not comply with the provisions of the Decree. It also provides that certain persons, including brokers and other intermediaries who participate with the offeror in a transaction that violates the Decree, may be jointly and severally liable with the offeror for damages that arise from a violation of the Decree. We have a long-standing practice of not requiring a declaration under the Decree from passive investors who do not express any intent to exercise influence or control over our company and who remain as passive investors, so long as they timely file appropriate information on Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This practice is consistent with advice we have received from our Panamanian counsel to the effect that our Board of Directors may waive the protection afforded by the Decree and not require declarations from passive investors who invest in our common stock with no intent to exercise influence or control over our company. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. We may issue preferred stock that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could 26 Table of Contents grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 