Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment derives substantially all its revenues from companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. The demand for offshore construction services has traditionally been cyclical, depending primarily on the capital expenditures of oil and gas companies for construction of development projects. These capital expenditures are influenced by such factors as: • prevailing oil and gas prices; • expectations about future prices; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the sale and expiration dates of available offshore leases; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves in offshore areas; • domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; 19 Table of Contents • technological advances; and • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds for capital expenditures. Prices for oil and gas have historically been extremely volatile and have reacted to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas (including changes resulting from the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to establish and maintain production quotas), domestic and worldwide economic conditions and political instability in oil producing countries. We anticipate prices for oil and natural gas will continue to be volatile and affect the demand for and pricing of our offshore construction services. A material decline in oil or natural gas prices or activities over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the demand for our offshore construction services and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Power Generation Systems segment derives substantially all its revenues from electric power generating companies and other steam-using industries, with demand for its services and products depending on capital expenditures in these historically cyclical industries. The demand for power generation services and products depends primarily on the capital expenditures of electric power generating companies, paper companies and other steam-using industries. These capital expenditures are influenced by such factors as: • prices for electricity, along with the cost of production and distribution; • prices for natural resources such as coal and natural gas; • demand for electricity, paper and other end products of steam-generating facilities; • availability of other sources of electricity, paper or other end products; • requirements of environmental legislation and regulation, including potential requirements applicable to carbon dioxide emissions; • levels of capacity utilization at operating power plants, paper mills and other steam-using facilities; • requirements for maintenance and upkeep at operating power plants and paper mills to combat the accumulated effects of wear and tear; • ability of electric generating companies and other steam users to raise capital; and • relative total costs of electricity production using boilers compared to total costs using gas turbines and other alternative forms of generation. A material decline in capital expenditures by electric power generating companies, paper companies and other steam-using industries over a sustained period of time could materially and adversely affect the demand for our power generation services and products and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Government Operations segment is substantially dependent on a single customer, and some of that segment’s contracts are subject to continued appropriations by Congress and may be terminated or delayed if future funding is not made available. In addition, the U.S. Government may not renew our existing contracts. Our Government Operations segment derives substantially all its revenue from the U.S. Government. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the U.S. Government accounted for approximately 90% of this segment’s revenue. Government contracts are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits, which could result in withholding or delaying of payments to us. In addition, some of our large multi-year contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to annual funding determinations and the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year operations may be planned in connection with 20 Table of Contents major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. The reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a U.S. Government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We also have several significant contracts with the U.S. Government that are subject to periodic renewal. If the U.S. Government fails to renew these contracts, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. As a result of these and other factors, the termination of one or more of our significant government contracts, our suspension from government contract work, the failure of the U.S. Government to renew our existing contracts or the disallowance of the payment of our contract costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks associated with contractual pricing in our industries, including the risk that, if our actual costs exceed the costs we estimate on our fixed-price contracts, our profitability will decline, and we may suffer losses. Our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction and Power Generation Systems segments are engaged in highly competitive industries, and they have a substantial number of their projects on a fixed-price basis. In many cases, these projects involve complex design and engineering, significant procurement of equipment and supplies and extensive construction management and other activities conducted over extended time periods. Our actual costs related to these projects could exceed our projections. We attempt to cover the increased costs of anticipated changes in labor, material and service costs of long-term contracts, either through estimates of cost increases, which are reflected in the original contract price, or through price escalation clauses. Despite these attempts, however, the cost and gross profit we realize on a fixed-price contract could vary materially from the estimated amounts because of supplier, contractor and subcontractor performance, our own performance, changes in job conditions, unanticipated weather conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity and increases in the cost of raw materials, particularly steel, over the term of the contract. These variations and the risks generally inherent in these industries may result in actual revenues or costs being different from those we originally estimated and may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Some of these risks include: • Our engineering, procurement and construction projects may encounter difficulties related to the procurement of materials, or due to schedule disruptions, equipment performance failures or other factors that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenue, claims or disputes. • We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work we perform or expenses we incur as a result of customer change orders or our customers providing deficient design or engineering information or equipment or materials. • We may be required to pay significant amounts of liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. • Difficulties in engaging third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers or failures by third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers to perform could result in project delays and cause us to incur additional costs. 21 Table of Contents Performance problems relating to any significant existing or future contract arising as a result of any of these other risks could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those we anticipate at the time we enter into the contract and could cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within our industry and our customer base. Our use of percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in volatility in our results of operations. We recognize revenues and profits under our long-term contracts on a percentage-of-completion basis. Accordingly, we review contract price and cost estimates periodically as the work progresses and reflect adjustments proportionate to the percentage of completion in income in the period when we revise those estimates. To the extent these adjustments result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported profits, with respect to a project, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material. Our current estimates of our contract costs and the profitability of our long-term projects, although reasonably reliable when made, could change as a result of the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, and if adjustments to overall contract costs are significant, the reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits could be material in future periods. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations. There can be no assurance that the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Because of project cancellations or changes in project scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us or poor project performance could increase the cost associated with a project. Delays, suspensions, cancellations, payment defaults, scope changes and poor project execution could materially reduce the revenues and reduce or eliminate profits that we actually realize from projects in backlog. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellation or modification by a customer or for other reasons may adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Many of the contracts in our backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel projects. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. However, we typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Recent U.S. regulation may adversely affect our ability to contract with the U.S. government. As a result of our reorganization in 1982, which we completed through a transaction commonly referred to as an “inversion,” MII is a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama. In 2009 the U.S. government adopted interim rules prohibiting federal agencies from awarding new contracts to “inverted” companies and their subsidiaries with U.S. federal appropriated funds for fiscal year 2009 and certain prior fiscal years. The current version of the proposed U.S. federal appropriations legislation for 2010 contains similar restrictions. We are unable, at this time, to predict with certainty the impact that the interim rules will have on our ultimate ability to pursue new contract awards, directly or indirectly, with the U.S. government and its agencies. We are also unable to predict the form in which, or the scope of, any final rules or regulations governing U.S. federal contracts using appropriated funds that may be adopted, or any potential future legislation impacting such rules and regulations. We expect that after the proposed spin-off of B&W as discussed in Item 1, B&W’s government operations business will not be subject to the 2009 interim rules discussed above. 22 Table of Contents A change in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on us by substantially increasing our corporate income taxes and, consequently, decreasing our future net income and increasing our future cash outlays for taxes. As a result of our reorganization in 1982 discussed above, MII is a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama. Tax legislative proposals intending to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies that have legal domiciles outside the U.S. but operate in the U.S. through one or more subsidiaries have repeatedly been introduced in the U.S. Congress. Recent examples include, but are not limited to, legislative proposals that would broaden the circumstances in which a non-U.S. company would be considered a U.S. resident for U.S. tax purposes. It is possible that, if legislation is enacted in this area, we could be subject to a substantial increase in our corporate income taxes and, consequently, decrease our future net income and increase our future cash outlays for taxes. Although we are unable to predict the form in which any proposed legislation might become law or the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any such future legislative enactments, such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. We face risks associated with investing in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, including the risk that we may be restricted in our ability to access the cash flows or assets of these entities. We conduct some operations through foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures. We do not manage all of these entities. Even in those joint ventures that we manage, we are often required to consider the interests of our joint venture partners in connection with decisions concerning the operations of the joint ventures. Arrangements involving these subsidiaries and joint ventures may restrict us from gaining access to the cash flows or assets of these entities. In addition, these foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures sometimes face governmentally imposed restrictions on their abilities to transfer funds to us. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our domestic operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from international operations, including customers in the Middle East. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our U.S. operations. These include: • risks of war, terrorism, piracy and civil unrest; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our assets; • renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts; • changing political conditions and changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment; • overlap of different tax structures; • risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • risks associated with the assertion of foreign sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted. Our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment may be particularly susceptible to regional conditions that may adversely affect its operations. Its major marine construction vessels typically require relatively long periods of time to mobilize over long distances, which could affect our ability to withdraw them from areas of conflict. Various foreign jurisdictions have laws limiting the right and ability of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies. Our international operations sometimes face the additional risks of fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange. 23 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to operating risks and limits on insurance coverage, which could expose us to potentially significant liability costs. We are subject to a number of risks inherent in our operations, including: • accidents resulting in injury or the loss of life or property; • environmental or toxic tort claims, including delayed manifestation claims for personal injury or loss of life; • pollution or other environmental mishaps; • hurricanes, tropical storms and other adverse weather conditions; • mechanical failures; • collisions; • property losses; • business interruption due to political action in foreign countries or other reasons; and • labor stoppages. We have been, and in the future we may be, named as defendants in lawsuits asserting large claims as a result of litigation arising from events such as these. Insurance against some of the risks inherent in our operations is either unavailable or available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. Also, catastrophic events customarily result in decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, additional exclusions in coverage, increased premium costs and increased deductibles and self-insured retentions. Risks that we have frequently found difficult to cost-effectively insure against include, but are not limited to, business interruption, property losses from wind, flood and earthquake events, nuclear hazards, war and confiscation or seizure of property in some areas of the world, pollution liability, liabilities related to occupational health exposures (including asbestos), liability related to our executives participating in the management of certain outside entities, professional liability/errors and omissions coverage, the failure, misuse or unavailability of our information systems, the failure of security measures designed to protect our information systems, and liability related to risk of loss of our work in progress and customer-owned materials in our care, custody and control. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we endeavor to obtain contractual protection against certain uninsured risks from our customers. When obtained, such contractual indemnification protection may not be as broad as we desire or may not be supported by adequate insurance maintained by the customer. Such insurance or contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not insured or for which we are underinsured could have a material adverse effect on us. Through two limited liability companies, we are also involved in management and operating activities for the U.S. Government at the Y-12 and Pantex facilities. Most insurable liabilities arising from these sites are not protected in our corporate insurance program. Instead, we rely on government contractual agreements, some insurance purchased specifically for the sites and certain specialized self-insurance programs funded by the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government has historically fulfilled its contractual agreement to reimburse for insurable claims, and we expect it to continue this process during our administration of these two facilities. However, it should be noted that, in most situations, the U.S. Government is contractually obligated to pay subject to the availability of authorized government funds. The reimbursement obligation of the U.S. Government is also conditional, and provisions of the relevant contract or applicable law may preclude reimbursement. In January 2010, we received notice from our nuclear liability underwriter that it intends to cancel our nuclear liability insurance for one of our licensed facilities, beginning May 10, 2010. If we are unsuccessful in securing adequate replacement coverage, our overall risk exposure at the subject facility would increase. There can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverages will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be available at preferred or required limits. 24 Table of Contents We have captive insurers which provide certain coverages for our subsidiary entities and related coverages. Claims as a result of our operations could adversely impact the ability of these captive insurers to respond to all claims presented. Additionally, upon the February 22, 2006 effectiveness of the settlement relating to the Chapter 11 proceedings involving several of our subsidiaries, most of our subsidiaries contributed substantial insurance rights providing coverage for, among other things, asbestos and other personal injury claims, to the asbestos personal injury trust. With the contribution of these insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, we may have underinsured or uninsured exposure for non-derivative asbestos claims or other personal injury or other claims that would have been insured under these coverages had the insurance rights not been contributed to the asbestos personal injury trust. Our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. Our operations in designing, engineering, manufacturing, constructing and servicing nuclear fuel and nuclear power equipment and components subject us to various risks, including: • potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; • unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, upgrades and repairs required by the NRC; • limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and • potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control. Our nuclear operations are subject to various safety-related requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, the DOE and the NRC. In the event of non-compliance, these agencies might increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending upon the assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised security and safety requirements promulgated by these agencies could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. In December 2009, our subsidiary Nuclear Fuel Services, Inc. which we purchased in December of 2008, implemented a suspension of some operations at its Erwin, Tennessee manufacturing facility while implementing organizational, facility and management changes to enhance safety controls and processes. These changes were developed following consultation with the NRC, as confirmed in the NRC’s January 7, 2010 confirmatory action letter to Nuclear Fuel Services, Inc. Suspended operations include production operations, the commercial development line and the highly-enriched uranium down-blending facility. These operations are expected to be brought back on line following third-party review, which has been completed, and NRC review of the safety improvement implementations. Subject to these reviews we expect that the production operations and the highly-enriched uranium down-blending facility which represent a significant portion of our operations, will be back on line by the end of March 2010, and the commercial development line will be back on line by the end of January 2011. If we experience delays in bringing these facilities back on line, such delays could have a material adverse impact on our 2010 results of operations, financial position and cash flow. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not have to suspend our operations in the future to implement additional changes to enhance our safety controls and processes in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Limitations or modifications to indemnification regulations of the U.S. or foreign countries could adversely affect our business. The Price Anderson Act partially indemnifies the nuclear industry against liability arising from nuclear incidents in the United States while ensuring compensation for the general public. The Price-Anderson Act 25 Table of Contents comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials, while promoting the nuclear industry by offering broad indemnification to commercial nuclear power plant operators and DOE contractors. Because we provide nuclear fabrication and other services to the DOE relating to its nuclear weapons facilities and other programs and the nuclear power industry in the ongoing maintenance and modifications of its nuclear power plants, including the manufacture of equipment and other components for use in such nuclear power plants, we may be entitled to some of the indemnification protections under the Price-Anderson Act against liability arising from nuclear incidents in the United States. However, the Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification provisions do not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a contractor for the U.S. Government and the nuclear power industry. The indemnification authority under the Price-Anderson Act was extended through December 2025 by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Price-Anderson Act’s indemnification provisions do not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a contractor for the DOE and the nuclear power industry. If an incident or evacuation is not covered under Price-Anderson Act indemnification, we could be held liable for damages, regardless of fault, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with international transportation of toxic, hazardous and radioactive materials, it is possible for a claim to be asserted which may not fall within the indemnification provided by the Price-Anderson Act. If such indemnification authority is not applicable in the future, our business could be adversely affected if the owners and operators of nuclear power plants fail to retain our services in the absence of commercially adequate insurance and indemnification. Moreover, because we manufacture nuclear components for the U.S. Government defense program, we may be entitled to some of the indemnification protections afforded by Public Law 85-804, for certain of our nuclear operations risks. Public Law 85-804 authorizes certain agencies of the U.S. Government, such as the DOE and U.S. Department of Defense, to indemnify their contractors against unusually hazardous or nuclear risks when such action would facilitate the national defense. However, because the indemnification protections afforded by Public Law 85-804 are granted on a discretionary basis, situations could arise where the U.S. Government elects not to offer such protections. In such situations, our business could be adversely affected by either our inability to obtain commercially adequate insurance or indemnification or our refusal to pursue such operations in the absence of such protections. Volatility and uncertainty of the credit markets may negatively impact us. We intend to finance our existing operations and initiatives with cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations, and borrowings under our credit facilities. In the past several years, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. Government. If adverse national and international economic conditions deteriorate, it is possible that we may not be able to fully draw upon our existing credit facilities and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms. In addition, while we believe our current liquidity is adequate for our normal operations and planned capital expenditures in 2010, a deterioration in the credit markets could adversely affect the ability of many of our customers to pursue new projects requiring our products and services or to pay us on time and the ability of many of our suppliers to meet our needs on a competitive basis. Our credit facilities impose restrictions that could limit our operating and investment flexibility within each of our segments. Each of our three principal operating segments is financed on a stand-alone basis. A significant subsidiary in each of these segments maintains a separate credit facility that permits borrowings for working capital and other needs for itself and other subsidiaries within its segment, as well as letters of credit for projects conducted by it or other subsidiaries within its segment. Each of those credit facilities contains financial and non-financial covenants which, among other things, limit our ability to move capital among our segments. As a result, we are limited in our ability to fund a segment’s operating needs and investments in capital projects or acquisitions by 26 Table of Contents the capital resources available within that segment and at our parent company, MII. This limitation could limit our operating and investment flexibility within each segment in the event an operational need or capital investment or acquisition opportunity arises within a segment that requires funding in excess of the amount available to that segment, even where other funding is available within our consolidated group of companies. We depend on significant customers. Our three segments derive a significant amount of their revenues and profits from a relatively small number of customers in a given year. The inability of these segments to continue to perform services for a number of their large existing customers, if not offset by contracts with new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our significant customers include federal government agencies, utilities, and major and national oil and gas companies. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Most industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have greater financial or other resources than we have. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than those of our products and services. This factor is significant to our segments’ businesses where capital investment is critical to our ability to compete. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain trained personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of revenues. Our success depends on the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely affect our operations. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As such, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our businesses, our operations could be adversely affected. While we believe our wage rates are competitive and our relationships with our employees are satisfactory, a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. If either of these events occurred for a significant period of time, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. A significant number of our employees are members of labor unions. Although we expect to renew our current union contracts without incident, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable new contracts with our unions in the future, we could experience strikes or other work stoppages by the affected employees, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs attributable to both union and non-union employees. If any such strikes or other work stoppages were to occur, or if our other employees were to become represented by unions, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Our business strategy includes acquisitions to continue our growth. Acquisitions of other businesses can create certain risks and uncertainties. We intend to pursue growth through the acquisition of businesses or assets that we believe will enable us to strengthen or broaden the types of projects we execute and also expand into new industries and regions. We may be unable to continue this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable businesses or assets, reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, business acquisitions involve certain risks, including: • difficulties relating to the assimilation of personnel, services and systems of an acquired business and the assimilation of marketing and other operational capabilities; 27 Table of Contents • challenges resulting from unanticipated changes in customer relationships subsequent to an acquisition; • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and internal controls; • assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition transaction was negotiated; • diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations; • failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations; and • potential impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition. Acquisitions may be funded by the issuance of additional equity or new debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on potential credit and bonding capacity. Additionally, an acquisition may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have historically experienced. Our business strategy also includes development and commercialization of new technologies to support our growth. The development and commercialization of new technologies requires significant capital investment and involves various risks and uncertainties. Our future growth will depend on our ability to continue to innovate by developing and commercializing new product and service offerings. Investments in new technologies involve varying degrees of uncertainties and risk. Commercial success depends on many factors, including the levels of innovation, the development costs and the availability of capital resources to fund those costs, the levels of competition from others developing similar or other competing technologies, our ability to obtain or maintain government permits or certifications, the effectiveness of production, distribution and marketing efforts, and the costs to customers to deploy and provide support for the new technologies. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and, even if they are profitable, our operating margins from new products and services may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. Among our opportunities involving new technologies, we are developing the B&W mPower™ modular nuclear plant, a small modular reactor design with the flexibility to provide between 125 MW to 1,000 MW of electrical power generation (in increments of 125 MW), and the capability to operate for a four- to five-year cycle without refueling. The development, general and administrative and capital costs to develop and commercialize this technology will require a substantial amount of capital investment. We expect that funding will be authorized at major milestones based on measurable and demonstrated progress. We intend to seek third-party funding and/or participation to pursue the development and commercialization of this technology; however, we can provide no assurance that such third-party funding or participation will be provided. Commercialization of this technology will require certification from the NRC, which we intend to seek in time to begin deploying this technology as early as 2020. While there currently are various small reactor competitors with limited capability, the potential exists for other competitors to emerge with competing technologies, in some cases with funding readily available, and we can provide no assurance that those competitors will not develop and commercialize similar or superior technologies sooner than we can or at a significant cost or price advantage. 28 Table of Contents We are subject to government regulations that may adversely affect our future operations. Many aspects of our operations and properties are affected by political developments and are subject to both domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those relating to: • constructing and equipping of production platforms and other offshore facilities; • constructing and equipping power generation products and nuclear components; • marine vessel safety; • currency conversions and repatriation; • oil exploration and development; • clean air and other environmental protection legislation; • taxation of foreign earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and • use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. In addition, our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment depends on the demand for its services from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry generally. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing offshore exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic and other policy reasons would adversely affect the operations of our Offshore Oil and Gas Construction segment by limiting the demand for its services. Our Power Generation Systems segment depends primarily on the demand for its products and services from electric power generating companies and other steam-using customers. The demand for power generation products and services can be influenced by state and federal governmental legislation setting requirements for utilities related to operations, emissions and environmental impacts. The legislative process is unpredictable and includes a platform that continuously seeks to increase the restrictions on power producers. Potential legislation limiting emissions from power plants, including carbon dioxide, could affect our markets and the demand for our products and services related to power generation. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations. Our businesses require us to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government permits and approvals. Our businesses are required to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals may adversely affect our operations by temporarily suspending our activities or curtailing our work and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although existing licenses are routinely renewed by various regulators, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including: • failure to provide adequate financial assurance for decommissioning or closure; • failure to comply with environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; • local community, political or other opposition; • executive action; and • legislative action. In addition, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or implemented, or existing laws or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we may be required to obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Our inability to obtain, and to comply with, the permits and approvals required for our businesses could have a material adverse effect on us. 29 Table of Contents Environmental laws and regulations and civil liability for contamination of the environment or related personal injuries may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings and cash flow. Governmental requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including solid waste management, air quality, water quality, the decontamination and decommissioning of former nuclear manufacturing and processing facilities and cleanup of contaminated sites, have had a substantial impact on our operations. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. In some cases, they can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate. Such expenditures and liabilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Governmental Regulations and Environmental Matters-Environmental” in Item 1 above for further information. In addition, some of our operations and the operations of predecessor owners of some of our properties have exposed us to civil claims by third parties for liability resulting from alleged contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances into the environment. For a discussion of legal proceedings of this nature in which we are currently involved, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. U.S. coal-fired power plants have been scrutinized by environmental groups and government regulators over the emissions of potentially harmful pollutants. In addition to recent legislation at the state level, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation that would limit greenhouse gas emissions, including CO2. In April 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the EPA has some authority to regulate greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. On October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In addition, on December 15, 2009, the EPA published a final rule finding that current and projected concentrations of six key greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare of current and future generations. The EPA also found that the combined emissions of these greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines contribute to the greenhouse gas pollution that threatens public health and welfare. This final rule, also known as the EPA’s “Endangerment Finding,” does not impose any requirements on industry or other entities directly; however, after the rule’s January 14, 2010 effective date, the EPA will be able to finalize motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards, the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil. Finally, according to the EPA, the final motor vehicle greenhouse gas standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. As a result, the EPA has proposed to tailor these programs such that only stationary sources, including refineries that emit over 25,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions per year, will be subject to air permitting requirements. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule. This rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gases to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. Some plans for coal-fired power plants have been cancelled or suspended in several states, although more new coal-fired power plants are being planned to meet the predicted increase in electricity demand. Also, in February 2008, three of the nation’s largest investment banks announced new environmental standards to ensure that lenders evaluate risks associated with investments in coal-fired power plants. Such standards could make it potentially more difficult for new U.S. coal-fired power plants to secure financing. Some plans for coal-fired power plants have been cancelled or suspended in several states, although more new coal-fired power plants are being planned to meet the predicted increase in electricity demand. 30 Table of Contents Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, lead to the suspension of our operations and result in reduced revenues and profits. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one or more of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting and various other applicable laws or regulations. For example, we regularly provide services that may be highly sensitive or that are related to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts, lead to the suspension of our operations and result in reduced revenues and profits. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or our 1976 Consent Decree. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials. We are also subject to a consent decree entered into in 1976 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The 1976 consent decree forbids us, among other things, from making payments in the nature of a commercial bribe to any customer or supplier to induce the purchase or sale of goods, services or supplies. Our training program and policies mandate compliance with the FCPA and the 1976 consent decree. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA or 1976 consent decree violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. You should note that the design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based in part upon various assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. In 2010 we expect to replace current key financial and human resources legacy systems with enterprise systems. This implementation subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions 31 Table of Contents in our business operations. This disruption and any other information technology system disruptions and our ability to mitigate those disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on us. War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and terrorist attacks and unrest have caused and may continue to cause instability in the world’s financial and commercial markets, have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate and have contributed to high levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. The continuing instability and unrest in Iraq, as well as threats of war or other armed conflict elsewhere, may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets and contribute to even higher levels of volatility in prices for oil and gas. In addition, the continued unrest in Iraq and Afghanistan could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Also, acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate, such as the Middle East and Indonesia, could limit or disrupt our markets and operations, including disruptions from evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel or assets. Armed conflicts, terrorism and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future. Risk Factors Related to the Proposed Spin-Off The proposed spin-off of B&W is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management and may not achieve the intended results, and difficulties in connection with the spin-off could have an adverse effect on us. We expect to file a Form 10 registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the distribution to our stockholders of all of the shares of common stock of a subsidiary that would hold, directly or indirectly, the assets and liabilities of our power generation systems and government operations businesses. The spin-off will be contingent upon the approval of our board of directors, a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the effectiveness of the Form 10 registration statement and other conditions. For these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed. Additionally, execution of the proposed spin-off will likely continue to require significant time and attention of our management, which could distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other strategic initiatives. Our employees may also be uncertain about their future roles within the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off. Further, if the spin-off is completed, it may not achieve the intended results. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In connection with the spin-off, the spin-off company will indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, the indemnity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and the spin-off company’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations may be impaired in the future. Pursuant to a separation agreement we expect to enter into with the spin-off company, that company will agree to indemnify us from certain liabilities after the spin-off. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that the spin-off company has agreed to assume. In addition, the indemnity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and the spin-off company may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations to us. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from the spin-off company any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The spin-off could result in substantial tax liability. We have requested a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under 32 Table of Contents Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Code. Our receipt of the private letter ruling will be a condition to the completion of the spin-off. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the Code. Rather, the private letter ruling will be based on representations by us that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. The spin-off will also be conditioned on our receipt of an opinion of Baker Botts L.L.P., in form and substance satisfactory to us, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Code. The opinion will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by the spin-off company and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each U.S. holder of our common stock who receives shares of the spin-off company in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of the spin-off company received. That distribution would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. For each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. In addition, if certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, the spin-off company would be treated as if the spin-off company had sold part of its assets (which will be retained by us) in a taxable sale for fair market value and we would be treated as receiving such assets from the spin-off company as a taxable dividend. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we will enter into in connection with the spin-off, the spin-off company will generally be responsible for any taxes imposed on the spin-off company or us and our subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment. However, if the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or our subsidiaries, a subsidiary of ours would be responsible for all such taxes. If we are liable for taxes under the tax sharing agreement, that liability could have a material adverse effect on us. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 33 Table of Contents 