ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our business are described below. However, additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations will likely suffer. Any of these or other factors could harm our business and future results of operations and may cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results or financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential clients may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. Our clients may cease business operations or conduct business on a greatly reduced basis. Finally, our investment portfolio is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected as well. We face significant, evolving competition which, if we fail to properly address, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and price of our stock. The markets for healthcare information systems are intensely competitive, and we face significant competition from a number of different sources. Several of our competitors have significantly greater name recognition as well as substantially greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources than we do. There has been significant merger and acquisition activity among a number of our competitors in recent years. Transaction induced pressures, or other related factors may result in price erosion or other negative market dynamics that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and price of our stock. We compete in all of our markets with other major healthcare related companies, information management companies, systems integrators and other software developers. Competitive pressures and other factors, such as new product introductions by us or our competitors, may result in price or market share erosion that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, there can be no assurance that our applications will achieve broad market acceptance or will successfully compete with other available software products. Our inability to make initial sales of our systems to newly formed groups and/or healthcare providers that are replacing or substantially modifying their healthcare information systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If new systems sales do not materialize, our near term and longer term revenue will be adversely affected. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In order to compete successfully, we must keep pace with our competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the industry in which we operate, or our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The software market generally is characterized by rapid technological change, changing client needs, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. New product development depends upon significant research and development expenditures which depend ultimately upon sales growth. Any material shortfall in revenue or research funding could impair our ability to respond to technological advances or opportunities in the marketplace and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or client requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In response to increasing market demand, we are currently developing new generations of targeted software products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop these new software products or that these products will operate successfully, or that any such development, even if successful, will be completed concurrently with or prior to introduction of competing products. Any such failure or delay could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. We face risk and/or the possibility of claims from activities related to strategic partners, which could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from our business and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. We rely on third parties to provide services that affect our business. For example, we use national clearinghouses in the processing of some insurance claims and we outsource some of our hardware maintenance services and the printing and delivery of patient statements for our clients. These third parties could raise their prices and/or be acquired by competitors of ours, which could potentially create short and long-term disruptions to our business negatively impacting our revenue, profit and/or stock price. We also have relationships with certain third parties where these third parties serve as sales channels through which we generate a portion of our revenue. Due to these third-party relationships, we could be subject to claims as a result of the activities, products, or services of these third-party service providers even though we were not directly involved in the circumstances leading to those claims. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, defending and investigating these claims could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from our business and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. 11 Table of Contents We may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits. We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these additional businesses, technologies and products are likely to serve our strategic goals. During fiscal year 2009, we acquired HSI and PMP, both of which are full-service healthcare RCM companies servicing physician groups and other healthcare clients. During fiscal year 2010, we acquired Opus and NextGen IS, both of which are developers of software and services for the inpatient market. The specific risks we may encounter in these types of transactions include but are not limited to the following: • potentially dilutive issuances of our securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition; • use of cash as acquisition currency may adversely affect interest or investment income, thereby potentially adversely affecting our earnings and /or earnings per share; • difficulty in fully or effectively integrating any acquired technologies or software products into our current products and technologies, where we may not receive the intended benefits of an acquisition; • difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition such as development, distribution and client support; • the possible adverse effect of such acquisitions on existing relationships with third party partners and suppliers of technologies and services; • the possibility that staff or clients of the acquired company might not accept new ownership and may transition to different technologies or attempt to renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance or support agreements; • the possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies, including any deficiencies in internal controls and procedures and the costs associated with remedying such deficiencies; • difficulty in entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • difficulty in integrating acquired operations due to geographical distance and language and cultural differences; and • the possibility that acquired assets become impaired, requiring us to take a charge to earnings which could be significant. A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technology for any of these reasons could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to manage growth could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have in the past experienced periods of growth which have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our non-cash resources. We also anticipate expanding our overall software development, marketing, sales, client management and training capacity. In the event we are unable to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in such capacities within a reasonable timeframe, such failure could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, our ability to manage future increases, if any, in the scope of our operations or personnel will depend on significant expansion of our research and development, marketing and sales, management and administrative and financial capabilities. The failure of our management to effectively manage expansion in our business could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are dependent upon our key personnel. If such personnel were to leave unexpectedly, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom have been with us for a significant period of time. These personnel have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our business. We maintain key man life insurance on only one of our employees. Because we have a relatively small number of employees when compared to other leading companies in our industry, our dependence on maintaining our relationships with key employees is particularly significant. We are also dependent on our ability to attract high quality personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and applications development. The industry in which we operate is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us. Loss of services of key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may need to grant additional equity incentives to key employees and provide other forms of incentive compensation to attract and retain such key personnel. Equity incentives may be dilutive to our per share financial performance. Failure to provide such types of incentive compensation could jeopardize our recruitment and retention capabilities. Continuing worldwide political and economic uncertainties may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The last several years have been periodically marked by concerns including but not limited to inflation, decreased consumer confidence, the lingering effects of international conflicts, energy costs and terrorist and military activities. These conditions can make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause constrained spending on our products and services and/or delay and lengthen sales cycles. We are implementing a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are currently replacing our multiple legacy business systems at different sites with a new company-wide, integrated ERP system to handle various business, operating and financial processes. The new system will enhance a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. 12 Table of Contents ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation activities that often continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report results of our operations, financial position and cash flows, which could impact our ability to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Until the new ERP system is fully implemented, we expect to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures to implement and test the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the ERP system will not occur or be identified. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it experiences operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the associated process changes, do not function as expected or give rise to the expected benefits. We own a captive facility, located in India and we are subject to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India. We are subject to several risks associated with having a portion of our assets and operations located in India. Many US companies have benefited from many policies of the Government of India and the Indian state governments in the states in which we operate, which are designed to promote foreign investment generally and the business process services industry in particular, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. There is no assurance that such policies will continue. Various factors, such as changes in the current federal government, could trigger significant changes in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. In addition, our financial performance and the market price of our common shares may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In particular, India has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, develop and operate our captive facility could be adversely affected if India does not successfully meet these challenges. Risks Related to Our Products and Service If our principal products and our new product development fail to meet the needs of our clients, we may fail to realize future growth. We currently derive substantially all of our net revenue from sales of our healthcare information systems and related services. We believe that a primary factor in the market acceptance of our systems has been our ability to meet the needs of users of healthcare information systems. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on our ability to continue to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients through the timely development and successful introduction and implementation of new and enhanced versions of our systems and other complementary products. We have historically expended a significant percentage of our net revenue on product development and believe that significant continuing product development efforts will be required to sustain our growth. Continued investment in our sales staff and our client implementation and support staffs will also be required to support future growth. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product development efforts, that the market will continue to accept our existing products, or that new products or product enhancements will be developed and implemented in a timely manner, meet the requirements of healthcare providers, or achieve market acceptance. If new products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. At certain times in the past, we have also experienced delays in purchases of our products by clients anticipating our launch, or the launch of our competitors, of new products. There can be no assurance that material order deferrals in anticipation of new product introductions from ourselves or other entities will not occur. If the emerging technologies and platforms of Microsoft and others upon which we build our products do not gain or continue to maintain broad market acceptance, or if we fail to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services compatible with such emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenue will suffer. Our software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database management system platforms such as those developed by Microsoft. To date, the standards and technologies upon which we have chosen to develop our products have proven to have gained industry acceptance. However, the market for our software products is subject to ongoing rapid technological developments, quickly evolving industry standards and rapid changes in client requirements, and there may be existing or future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status, which are not compatible with our products. We face the possibility of subscription pricing, which may force us to adjust our sales, marketing and pricing strategies. In April, 2009 we announced a new subscription based software as a service delivery model which includes monthly subscription pricing. This model is designed for smaller practices to quickly access the NextGenehr or NextGenpm products at a modest monthly per provider price. We currently derive substantially all of our systems revenue from traditional software license, implementation and training fees, as well as the resale of computer hardware. Today, the majority of our clients pay an initial license fee for the use of our products, in addition to a periodic maintenance fee. While the intent of the new subscription based delivery model is to further penetrate the smaller practice market, there can be no assurance that this delivery model will not become increasingly popular with both small and large clients. If the marketplace increasingly demands subscription pricing, we may be forced to further adjust our sales, marketing and pricing strategies accordingly, by offering a higher percentage of our 13 Table of Contents products and services through these means. Shifting to a significantly greater degree of subscription pricing could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and quarterly and annual revenue and results of operations, as our revenue would initially decrease substantially. There can be no assurance that the marketplace will not increasingly embrace subscription pricing. We face the possibility of claims based upon our Web site content, which may cause us expense and management distraction. We could be subject to third party claims based on the nature and content of information supplied on our Web site by us or third parties, including content providers or users. We could also be subject to liability for content that may be accessible through our Web site or third party Web sites linked from our Web site or through content and information that may be posted by users in chat rooms, bulletin boards or on Web sites created by professionals using our applications. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our services involve the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information and protected health information of patients. Because of the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, defective design, or otherwise, someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to client or patient data. As a result, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and significant costs for remediation and remediation efforts to prevent future occurrences. We rely upon our clients as users of our system for key activities to promote security of the system and the data within it, such as administration of client-side access credentialing and control of client-side display of data. On occasion, our clients have failed to perform these activities. Failure of clients to perform these activities may result in claims against us that this reliance was misplaced, which could expose us to significant expense and harm to our reputation. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. In addition, our clients may authorize or enable third parties to access their client data or the data of their patients on our systems. Because we do not control such access, we cannot ensure the complete propriety of that access or integrity or security of such data in our systems. Failure by our clients to obtain proper permissions and waivers may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data, which could harm our business. We require our clients to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they have done so and will do so. If they do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. This could impair our functions, processes and databases that reflect, contain, or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. In addition, this could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules and analyses or limit other data-driven activities that benefit us. Moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice, permission or waiver. These claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our operating results. We face the possibility of damages resulting from internal and external security breaches and viruses. In the course of our business operations, we compile and transmit confidential information, including patient health information, in our processing centers and other facilities. A breach of security in any of these facilities could damage our reputation and result in damages being assessed against us. In addition, the other systems with which we may interface, such as the Internet and related systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors, or similar disruptive problems. The effect of these security breaches and related issues could disrupt our ability to perform certain key business functions and could potentially reduce demand for our services. Accordingly, we have expended significant resources toward establishing and enhancing the security of our related infrastructures, although no assurance can be given that they will be entirely free from potential breach. Maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure security may require us to expend significant capital in the future. The success of our strategy to offer our EDI services and Internet solutions depends on the confidence of our clients in our ability to securely transmit confidential information. Our EDI services and Internet solutions rely on encryption, authentication and other security technology licensed from third parties to achieve secure transmission of confidential information. We may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt the transmission of communications by our clients. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential user information or interrupt our, or our clients’, operations. In addition, our EDI and Internet solutions may be vulnerable to viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any failure to provide secure infrastructure and/or electronic communication services could result in a lack of trust by our clients causing them to seek out other vendors and/or damage our reputation in the market, making it difficult to obtain new clients. We are subject to the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, which is not within our control, and which may diminish Internet usage and availability as well as access to our Web site. We deliver Internet-based services and, accordingly, we are dependent on the maintenance of the Internet by third parties. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it and our performance may decrease if the Internet continues to experience its historic trend of expanding usage. As a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, the Internet has experienced a variety of performance problems which may continue into the foreseeable future. Such Internet related problems may diminish Internet usage and availability of the Internet to us for transmittal of our Internet-based services. In addition, difficulties, outages 14 Table of Contents and delays by Internet service providers, online service providers and other Web site operators may obstruct or diminish access to our Web site by our clients resulting in a loss of potential or existing users of our services. Our products may be subject to product liability legal claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our products provide applications that relate to patient clinical information. Any failure by our products to provide accurate and timely information concerning patients, their medication, treatment and health status, generally, could result in claims against us which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance, industry reputation and ability to market new system sales. In addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our Web sites, exposes us to assertions of malpractice, other personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery/handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. We maintain insurance to protect against claims associated with the use of our products as well as liability limitation language in our end-user license agreements, but there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage or contractual language would adequately cover any claim asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of or outside of our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in our expenditure of funds for litigation and management time and resources. Certain healthcare professionals who use our Internet-based products will directly enter health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may store on our computer systems. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations, govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: • state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws; • our contracts with clients and partners; • state laws regulating healthcare professionals; • Medicaid laws; • the HIPAA and related rules proposed by the Health Care Financing Administration; and • Health Care Financing Administration standards for Internet transmission of health data. HIPAA establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of Protected Health Information. Any failure by us or by our personnel or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability to us. Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding Protected Health Information from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of applicable requirements. Also, third party sites and/or links that consumers may access through our web sites may not maintain adequate systems to safeguard this information, or may circumvent systems and policies we have put in place. In addition, future laws or changes in current laws may necessitate costly adaptations to our policies, procedures, or systems. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to product liability claims, that such claims will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Such product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the effect of payor and provider conduct which we cannot control and accordingly, there is no assurance that revenue for our services will continue at historic levels. We offer certain electronic claims submission products and services as part of our product line. While we have implemented certain product features designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims submissions, these features may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payors. Should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payors, we may be subject to liability claims. Electronic data transmission services are offered by certain payors to healthcare providers that establish a direct link between the provider and payor. This process reduces revenue to third party EDI service providers such as us. As a result of this, or other market factors, we are unable to ensure that we will continue to generate revenue at or in excess of prior levels for such services. A significant increase in the utilization of direct links between healthcare providers and payors could adversely affect our transaction volume and financial results. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing links to payors or develop new connections on terms that are economically satisfactory to us, if at all. Risks Related to Regulation We face increasing involvement of the federal government in our industry, which may give rise to uncertain and unwarranted expectations concerning the benefits we are to receive from government funding and programs. In February 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”), which allocates over $20 billion dollars to healthcare IT over the next several years. The provision of the legislation that addresses health information technology specifically is known as the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”). Under the provisions of HITECH Act, the ARRA includes significant financial incentives to healthcare providers who can demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology beginning in 2011. While the Company expects the ARRA to create 15 Table of Contents significant opportunities for sales of NextGenehr over the next several years, we are unsure of the immediate impact from the ARRA and the long-term potential could be significant. In order for our customers to qualify for incentives related to EHR use, our products must meet various requirements for product certification under the regulations and must enable our customers to achieve “meaningful use,” as such term is currently defined under the July 28, 2010 Final Rule adopted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“CMS”), and under any future regulations and guidance that CMS may release related to the incentive program. The CMS Final Rule provides for a phased approach to implementation of the meaningful use standards, with Stage 1 set forth in the final rule and Stages 2 and 3 reserved for future rulemaking based upon the experiences with Stage 1. Also, a final rule has been implemented by the Office of National Coordinator, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, to adopt an initial set of standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria to enhance the use of health information technology and support its meaningful use. Given that CMS will release future regulations related to electronic health records, our ability to achieve product certification by CCHIT® and other regulatory bodies, and the length, if any, of additional related development and other efforts required to meet meaningful use standards could materially impact our ability to compete and to maximize our market opportunity. We face the risks and uncertainties that are associated with litigation against us, which may adversely impact our marketing, distract management and have a negative impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face the risks associated with litigation concerning the operation of our business. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved litigation may have an adverse effect on our business. In particular, such litigation could impair our relationships with existing clients and our ability to obtain new clients. Defending such litigation may result in a diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such litigation may also have the effect of discouraging potential acquirers from bidding for us or reducing the consideration such acquirers would otherwise be willing to pay in connection with an acquisition. There can be no assurance that such litigation will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could adversely affect our financial condition. We are heavily dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and we rely largely on license agreements, confidentiality procedures and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our software is not patented and existing copyright laws offer only limited practical protection. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and are often not enforced as vigorously as those in the United States. We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products or that any such assertion will not require us to enter into a license agreement or royalty arrangement or other financial arrangement with the party asserting the claim. Responding to and defending any such claims may distract the attention of our management and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, claims may be brought against third parties from which we purchase software, and such claims could adversely affect our ability to access third party software for our systems. If we are deemed to infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services. We are and may continue to be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our applications’ functionality is viewed as similar or overlapping with competitive products. We do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties. However, claims are occasionally asserted against us, and we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future. Also, we cannot assure you that any such claims will be unsuccessful. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources defending any infringement claims — even if we are ultimately successful in the defense of such matters. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We are dependent on our license rights and other services from third parties, which may cause us to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our products as well as other services from third-party vendors. Most of these arrangements can be continued/renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated for any number of reasons. We may not be able to continue using the products or services made available to us under these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments or services provided until we can obtain equivalent technology or services. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the business elements covered by these arrangements and use these elements to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue providing their technology or services in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own products. 16 Table of Contents There is significant uncertainty in the healthcare industry in which we operate, and we are subject to the possibility of changing government regulation, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement processes and operation of healthcare facilities. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates and certain capital expenditures. Recently enacted public laws reforming the U.S. healthcare system may have an impact on our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590; Public Law 111-148) (“PPACA”) and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872) (the “Reconciliation Act”), which amends the PPACA (collectively the “Health Reform Laws”), were signed into law in March 2010. The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions which may impact us and our customers. Some of these provisions may have a positive impact, by expanding the use of electronic health records in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact due to fewer available resources. Increases in fraud and abuse penalties may also adversely affect participants in the health care sector, including us. Various legislators have announced that they intend to examine further proposals to reform certain aspects of the U.S. healthcare system. Healthcare providers may react to these proposals, and the uncertainty surrounding such proposals, by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our systems and related services. Cost-containment measures instituted by healthcare providers as a result of regulatory reform or otherwise could result in a reduction in the allocation of capital funds. Such a reduction could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our systems and related services. On the other hand, changes in the regulatory environment have increased and may continue to increase the needs of healthcare organizations for cost-effective data management and thereby enhance the overall market for healthcare management information systems. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such proposals or healthcare reforms might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As existing regulations mature and become better defined, we anticipate that these regulations will continue to directly affect certain of our products and services, but we cannot fully predict the effect at this time. We have taken steps to modify our products, services and internal practices as necessary to facilitate our compliance with the regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely or complete manner. Achieving compliance with these regulations could be costly and distract management’s attention and divert other company resources, and any noncompliance by us could result in civil and criminal penalties. Developments of additional federal and state regulations and policies have the potential to positively or negatively affect our business. Our software may potentially be subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) as a medical device. Such regulation could require the registration of the applicable manufacturing facility and software and hardware products, application of detailed record-keeping and manufacturing standards, and FDA approval or clearance prior to marketing. An approval or clearance requirement could create delays in marketing, and the FDA could require supplemental filings or object to certain of these applications, the result of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to false or fraudulent claim laws. There are numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with submission and payment of physician claims for reimbursement. In some cases, these laws also forbid abuse of existing systems for such submission and payment. Any failure of our RCM services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial liability including, but not limited to, criminal liability, could adversely affect demand for our services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to address the failure. Errors by us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Determination by a court or regulatory agency that our services violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, cause us to be disqualified from serving clients doing business with government payors and have an adverse effect on our business. In most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our RCM services based on a percentage of the collections that our clients receive as a result of our services. To the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices. A portion of our business involves billing of Medicare claims on behalf of its clients. In an effort to combat fraudulent Medicare claims, the federal government offers rewards for reporting of Medicare fraud which could encourage others to subject us to a charge of fraudulent claims, including charges that are ultimately proven to be without merit. If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products. We may be subject to additional federal and state statutes and regulations in connection with offering services and products via the Internet. On an increasingly frequent basis, federal and state legislators are proposing laws and regulations that apply to Internet commerce and communications. Areas being affected by these regulations include user privacy, pricing, content, taxation, copyright protection, distribution, and quality of products and services. To the extent that our products and services are subject to these laws and regulations, the sale of our products and services could be harmed. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, one or more of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Commission, we believe our current sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements have been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the software industry. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in changes in our revenue recognition and/or other accounting policies and practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business, and our per share price may be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K a report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. As part of the ongoing evaluation being undertaken by management and our independent registered public accountants pursuant to Section 404, our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2011. However, if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses that we would then be required to disclose. Any material weaknesses identified in our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results, and we might be subject to investigation by regulatory authorities. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. No evaluation process can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect and correct all failures within our company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, if we continue to expand, through either organic growth or through acquisitions (or both), the challenges involved in implementing appropriate controls will increase and may require that we evolve some or all of our internal control processes. It is also possible that the overall scope of Section 404 may be revised in the future, thereby causing our auditors and ourselves to review, revise or reevaluate our internal control processes which may result in the expenditure of additional human and financial resources. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our revenue may fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and period to period, as a result of a number of factors including, without limitation: • the size and timing of orders from clients; • the specific mix of software, hardware and services in client orders; • the length of sales cycles and installation processes; • the ability of our clients to obtain financing for the purchase of our products; • changes in pricing policies or price reductions by us or our competitors; • the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us or our competitors; • changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other rule-making bodies; • accounting policies concerning the timing of the recognition of revenue; • the availability and cost of system components; • the financial stability of clients; • market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products, applications and product enhancements; • our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; • deferrals of client orders in anticipation of new products, applications, product enhancements, or public/private sector initiatives; • execution of or changes to our strategy; • personnel changes; and • general market/economic factors. Our software products are generally shipped as orders are received and accordingly, we have historically operated with a minimal backlog of license fees. As a result, revenue in any quarter is dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter and is not predictable with any degree of certainty. Furthermore, our systems can be relatively large and expensive, and individual systems sales can represent a significant portion of our revenue and profits for a quarter such that the loss or deferral of even one such sale can adversely affect our quarterly revenue and profitability. 18 Table of Contents Clients often defer systems purchases until our quarter end, so quarterly results generally cannot be predicted and frequently are not known until after the quarter has concluded. Our sales are dependent upon clients’ initial decisions to replace or substantially modify their existing information systems, and subsequently, their decision concerning which products and services to purchase. These are major decisions for healthcare providers and, accordingly, the sales cycle for our systems can vary significantly and typically ranges from six to twenty four months from initial contact to contract execution/shipment. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of systems sales, implementations and installations can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. We currently recognize revenue pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 985-605, Software, Revenue Recognition, or ASC 985-605. ASC 985-605 summarizes the FASB’s views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. There can be no assurance that application and subsequent interpretations of these pronouncements will not further modify our revenue recognition policies, or that such modifications would not adversely affect our operating results reported in any particular quarter or year. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. Volatility may be caused by a number of factors including but not limited to: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results; • rumors about our performance, software solutions, or merger and acquisition activity; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • governmental regulatory action; • health care reform measures; • client relationship developments; • purchases or sales of company stock; • activities by one or more of our major shareholders concerning our policies and operations; • changes occurring in the markets in general; • macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and internationally; and • other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Two of our directors are significant shareholders, which makes it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval and which influence may be alleged to conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. Two of our directors and principal shareholders beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 33.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at March 31, 2011. California law and our Bylaws permit our shareholders to cumulate their votes, the effect of which is to provide shareholders with sufficiently large concentrations of our shares the opportunity to assure themselves one or more seats on our Board of Directors. The amounts required to assure a Board position can vary based upon the number of shares outstanding, the number of shares voting, the number of directors to be elected, the number of “broker non-votes,” and the number of shares held by the shareholder exercising cumulative voting rights. In the event that cumulative voting is invoked, it is likely that the two of our directors holding an aggregate of approximately 33.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at March 31, 2011 will each have sufficient votes to assure themselves of one or more seats on our Board of Directors. With or without cumulative voting, these shareholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In fiscal year 2009, one of the principal shareholders, Ahmed Hussein, proposed a different slate of directors than what the Company proposed to shareholders. The Company spent approximately $1.5 million to defend the Company’s slate. In addition, such influence by one or both of these shareholders could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to purchase us or to implement a change over our Board of Directors, which could result in a reduction of the market price offered for our common stock in such an event. 19 Table of Contents Our future policy concerning the payment of dividends is uncertain, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. We have announced our intention to pay a quarterly dividend commencing with the conclusion of our first fiscal quarter of 2008 (June 30, 2007) and pursuant to this policy our Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend ranging from $0.25 to its most recent level of $0.35 per share on our outstanding shares of common stock, each quarter thereafter. We anticipate that future quarterly dividends, if and when declared by our Board of Directors pursuant to this policy, would likely be distributable on or about the fifth day of each of the months of October, January, April and July. There can be no guarantees that we will have the financial wherewithal to fund this dividend in perpetuity or to pay it at historic rates. Further, our Board of Directors may decide not to pay the dividend at some future time for financial or non-financial reasons. Unfulfilled expectations regarding future dividends could adversely affect the price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 