Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the following risk factors as well as other information in this report before investing in any of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. This could cause the market price for our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risk factors include any material changes to, and supersede, the risk factors previously disclosed in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Foreign currency fluctuations related to international operations may adversely affect our operating results. We derived approximately 75% of our net sales from outside the United States in fiscal 2008 and expect to continue to derive the majority of net sales from outside the United States for the foreseeable future. Most of our sales outside the United States are denominated in the local currency of our customers. As a result, the U.S. dollar value of our net sales varies with currency rate fluctuations. Significant changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent periods, our results of operations have been positively affected from the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, the yen and several other foreign currencies, but there can be no assurance that this positive impact will continue. In the past, our results of operations have been negatively impacted by the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. 13 Table of Contents Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide and have significant operations outside of the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total net sales. In addition, we expect that the proportion of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities located outside the United States will increase. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or other conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. Fluctuations in worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation could affect our operating results. The demand for analytical instrumentation products can fluctuate depending upon capital expenditure cycles. Most companies consider our instrumentation products capital equipment and some customers may be unable to secure the necessary capital expenditure approvals due to general economic or customer specific conditions. Significant fluctuations in demand could harm our results of operations. A downturn in economic conditions could affect our operating results. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by various economic factors. In an economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, our customers may be less likely to purchase our products and vendors may be more likely to fail to meet contractual terms. A downturn in economic conditions may make it more difficult for us to maintain and continue our revenue growth and profitability performance. A decline in economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. A high proportion of our costs are fixed due in part to our significant sales, research and product development and manufacturing costs. Declines in revenue caused by fluctuations in currency rates, worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation or other factors could disproportionately affect our quarterly operating results, which may in turn cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations and financial condition will suffer if we do not introduce new products that are attractive to our customers on a timely basis. Our products are highly technical in nature. As a result, many of our products must be developed months or even years in advance of the potential need by a customer. If we fail to introduce new products and enhancements as demand arises or in advance of the competition, our products are likely to become obsolete over time, which would harm operating results. Also, if the market is not receptive to our newly-developed products, our results of operations would be adversely impacted and we may be unable to recover the costs of research and product development and marketing associated with such products. 14 Table of Contents The analytical instrumentation market is highly competitive, and our inability to compete effectively in this market would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The analytical instrumentation market is highly competitive and we compete with many companies on a local and international level that are significantly larger than we are and have greater resources, including larger sales forces and technical staff. Competitors may introduce more effective and less costly products and, in doing so, may make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. If this occurs, our market share may decline and operating results could suffer. We may experience difficulties with obtaining components from sole- or limited-source suppliers, or manufacturing delays, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Most raw materials, components and supplies that we purchase are available from many suppliers. However, certain items are purchased from sole or limited-source suppliers and a disruption of these sources could adversely affect our ability to ship products as needed. A prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components would likely reduce product inventory, hinder sales and harm our reputation with customers. Worldwide demand for certain components may cause the cost of such components to rise or limit the availability of these components, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We manufacture products in our facilities in Germany, the Netherlands and the United States. Any prolonged disruption to the operations at these facilities, whether due to labor unrest, supplier issues, damage to the physical plants or equipment or other reasons, could also adversely affect our results of operations. Our executive officers and other key employees are critical to our business, they may not remain with us in the future and finding talented replacements may be difficult. Our operations require managerial and technical expertise. Each of our executive officers and key employees located in the United States is employed “at will” and may leave our employment at any time. In addition, we operate in a variety of locations, specifically the Bay Area and around the world where the demand for qualified personnel may be extremely high and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. As a result, competition for personnel can be intense and the turnover rate for qualified personnel may be high. The loss of any of our executive officers or key employees could cause us to incur increased operating expenses and divert senior management resources in searching for replacements. An inability to hire, train and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees would seriously affect our ability to conduct our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and may face intellectual property infringement claims Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot be certain that: • any of our pending patent applications or any future patent applications will result in issued patents; • the scope of our patent protection will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us; • any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or • others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others have not or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any patents issued, or that may be issued, in the future to us or to our licensors. Whether or not patents are issued to us or to our licensors, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products developed by us. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits or in asserting any patent rights, including those granted by third parties. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights from third parties. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptance terms, if at all. 15 Table of Contents Our issued U.S. patents, and corresponding foreign patents, expire at various dates ranging from 2008 to 2027. When each of our patents expires, competitors may develop and sell products based on the same or similar technologies as those covered by the expired patent. We have invested in significant new patent applications, and we cannot be certain that any of these applications will result in an issued patent to enhance our intellectual property rights. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 