Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the following risk factors as well as other information in this report before investing in any of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. This could cause the market price for our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risk factors include any material changes to, and supersede, the risk factors previously disclosed in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide and have significant operations outside of the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total sales. In addition, we expect that the proportion of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities located outside the United States may increase. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or other conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. Foreign currency fluctuations related to international operations may adversely affect our operating results. We derived approximately 74% of our net sales from outside the United States in fiscal 2007 and expect to continue to derive the majority of net sales from outside the United States for the foreseeable future. Most of our sales outside the United States are denominated in the local currency of our customers. As a result, the U.S. dollar value of our net sales varies with currency rate fluctuations. Significant changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent periods, our results of operations have been positively affected from the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, the Japanese yen and other foreign currencies, but there can be no assurance that this positive impact will continue. In the past, our results of operations have been negatively impacted by the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. Fluctuations in worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation could affect our operating results. The demand for analytical instrumentation products can fluctuate depending upon capital expenditure cycles. Most companies consider our instrumentation products capital equipment and some customers may be unable to secure the necessary capital expenditure approvals due to general economic or customer specific conditions. Significant fluctuations in demand could harm our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. A high proportion of our costs are fixed due in part to our significant sales, research and product development and manufacturing costs. Declines in revenue caused by fluctuations in currency rates, worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation or other factors could disproportionately affect our quarterly operating results, which may in turn cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations and financial condition will suffer if we do not introduce new products that are attractive to our customers on a timely basis. Our products are highly technical in nature. As a result, many of our products must be developed months or even years in advance of the potential need by a customer. If we fail to introduce new products and enhancements as demand arises or in advance of the competition, our products are likely to become obsolete over time, which would harm operating results. Also, if the market is not receptive to our newly developed products, we may be unable to recover costs of research and product development and marketing, and may fail to achieve material components of our business plan. The analytical instrumentation market is highly competitive, and our inability to compete effectively in this market would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The analytical instrumentation market is highly competitive and we compete with many companies on a local and international level that are significantly larger than us and have greater resources, including larger sales forces and technical staff. Competitors may introduce more effective and less costly products and, in doing so, may make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. If this occurs, our market share may decline and operating results could suffer. We may experience difficulties with obtaining components from sole- or limited-source suppliers, or manufacturing delays, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Most raw materials, components and supplies that we purchase are available from many suppliers. However, certain items are purchased from sole or limited-source suppliers and a disruption of these sources could adversely affect our ability to ship products as needed. A prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components would likely reduce product inventory, hinder sales and harm our reputation with customers. Worldwide demand for certain components may cause the cost of such components to rise or limit the availability of these components, which could have an adverse affect our results of operations. We manufacture products in our facilities in Germany and the United States. Any prolonged disruption to the operations at these facilities, whether due to labor unrest, supplier issues, damage to the physical plants or equipment or other reasons, could also adversely affect our results of operations. Our executive officers and other key employees are critical to our business, they may not remain with us in the future and finding talented replacements may be difficult. Our operations require managerial and technical expertise. Each of the executive officers and key employees located in the United States is employed “at will” and may leave our employment at any time. In addition, we operate in a variety of locations around the world where the demand for qualified personnel may be extremely high and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. As a result, competition for personnel can be intense and the turnover rate for qualified personnel may be high. The loss of any of our executive officers or key employees could cause us to incur increased operating expenses and divert senior management resources in searching for replacements. An inability to hire, train and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees would seriously affect our ability to conduct our business. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and may face intellectual property infringement claims. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot be certain that: • any of our pending patent applications or any future patent applications will result in issued patents; • the scope of our patent protection will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us; • any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or • others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others have not or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any patents issued, or that may be issued, in the future to us or to our licensors. Whether or not patents are issued to us or to our licensors, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products developed by us. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits or in asserting any patent rights, including those granted by third parties. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights from third parties. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptance terms, if at all. Our issued U.S. patents, and corresponding foreign patents, expire at various dates ranging from 2008 to 2024. When each of our patents expires, competitors may develop and sell products based on the same or similar technologies as those covered by the expired patent. We have invested in significant new patent applications, and we cannot be certain that any of these applications will result in an issued patent to enhance our intellectual property rights. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF DIONEX CORPORATION The following table lists the names and positions of all our current executive officers, and their ages as of August 29, 2007. There are no family relationships between any director and executive officer of Dionex Corporation. Executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Name Age Position(s) Lukas Braunschweiler 51 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Bruce Barton 48 Vice President, Sales and Service International David Bow 43 Vice President, North American Sales/Service Kevin Chance 40 Executive Vice President David Fairbanks 47 Vice President, Information Technology Dietrich Hauffe 48 Vice President, Marketing and Business Development Peter Jochum 56 Vice President, Life Sciences Business Unit Craig McCollam 47 Vice President, and Chief Financial Officer John Plohetski 48 Vice President, Chemical Analysis Business Unit Christopher Pohl 56 Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer Dr. Braunschweiler has served as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors since joining us in August 2002. Prior to that time, Dr. Braunschweiler was employed by Mettler-Toledo, a supplier of precision instruments, where he served most recently as Group Vice-President and Head of the Laboratory and Packaging Division. Prior to that, he served in a variety of management positions at Mettler-Toledo. Dr. Braunschweiler has been residing in Switzerland since 2006. Dr. Braunschweiler primarily operates from Switzerland and our European facilities, but also spends a substantial portion of his time in the United States. Mr. Barton will serve as Vice President of Sales and Service International effective September 1, 2007. Prior to this new role, he served as Vice President, Asia/Pacific and Rest of World since October 2003. Upon joining us in 14 Table of Contents 1987, he served in numerous positions in the Sales, Accounting and Finance departments. Previously he held various positions including Head of Distributor Operations as well as Vice President-International Operations. Mr. Bow has served as Vice President of North American Sales/Service since joining us in September 2003. Prior to that, he founded and served as President of Genesis Chemicals, Buffers & Biochemicals Corp, GW Incorporated and GenChem GmbH. Mr. Chance has served as Executive Vice President since January 2007. He was the Vice President of our Chemical Analysis Business Unit (CABU) from April 2003 to January 2007. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Chance served as Chief Executive Officer of Aptus Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biotech company. From 1989 through 2000, he served as a business unit general manager and in various other positions at Siemens Industrial Automation (Moore Products Company), an automation technology provider. Mr. Fairbanks has served as Vice President, Information Technology since May 1, 2007. Prior to joining Dionex and since June 2005, he served as Chief Information Officer of Silicon Graphics, Inc., a leading provider of products, services, and solutions for use in high-performance computing and data management. Prior to that, from 1993 to 2005, Mr. Fairbanks served in various senior director roles in Information technology at Silicon Graphics, Inc. Dr. Hauffe has served as Vice President, Marketing and Business Development since December 2005. Between 2000 and 2005, Mr. Hauffe served as General Manager of our subsidiary, Dionex Idstein, in Germany. From 1993 to 1997, Dr. Hauffe served as our Product Manager Life Sciences. Dr. Jochum has served as our Vice President, Life Sciences Business Unit since October 2000. Prior to that, he served as Managing Director of our subsidiary, Dionex Softron, since joining us in October 1998. Prior to joining us, he served as Managing Director of Softron GmbH, which we acquired in 1998 Mr. McCollam has served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 1999. Prior to that, he served as Director of Finance and Corporate Controller since joining us in 1993. Mr. Plohetski has served as our Vice President, Chemical Analysis Business Unit since December 2006. From March 2003 to November 2006, he served as our Director of Manufacturing. Prior to joining us in 2003, Mr. Plohetski served as Director of Engineering at Carl Zeiss, Inc. from 1982 to 2002. Mr. Pohl has served as our Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Technology Officer since May 2004. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Research and Development since June 2001. From March 2000 to June 2001, Mr. Pohl served as Vice President, Research and Development of Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc., a provider of enabling tools for proteomics. From 1981 to 2000, he served as our Vice President, Consumables and in various other capacities. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 