Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the following risk factors as well as other information in this report before investing in any of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. This could cause the market price for our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. These risk factors include any material changes to, and supersede, the risk factors previously disclosed in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. A downturn in economic conditions could affect our operating results. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have been affected by the weaker global economic conditions of the last several years. These conditions resulted in reduced sales of our products in the last two quarters of fiscal 2009 and the first two quarters of fiscal 2010. In a continued economic recession or under other adverse economic conditions, our customers may be less likely to purchase our products and vendors may be more likely to fail to meet contractual terms. A further downturn in economic conditions or a slow recovery from the current recession may make it more difficult for us to maintain and continue our revenue growth and profitability performance resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations related to international operations may adversely affect our operating results. We derived over 70% of our net sales from outside the U.S. in fiscal 2010 and expect to continue to derive the majority of net sales from outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future. Most of our sales outside the U.S. are denominated in the local currency of our customers. As a result, the U.S. dollar value of our net sales varies with currency rate fluctuations. Significant changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent periods, our results of operations have been positively affected from the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, the Japanese yen and several other foreign currencies, but there can be no assurance that this positive impact will continue. In the past, our results of operations have also been negatively impacted by the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide and have significant operations outside of the U.S., our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total net sales. In addition, we expect that the proportion of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions and manufacturing facilities located outside the U.S. will increase. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic, political or other conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. If we fail to effectively transition to our new and/or upgraded accounting information and technology infrastructure systems, it may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to new or upgraded accounting information and technology infrastructure systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as personnel become familiar with new, upgraded or modified systems. Our accounting information and technology infrastructure systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business and customers’ needs change, which could prolong the difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective information systems. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded accounting information and technology infrastructure systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our accounting information and technology infrastructure systems and respond to changes in our customers’ needs in a timely manner, it may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We continually evaluate our system of internal controls over financial reporting and may make enhancements where appropriate, which may require significant resources. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We continually evaluate and, where appropriate, enhance our policies, procedures and internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. Implementing changes when necessary may take a significant amount of time, money, and management resources and may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and other personnel. 10 Table of Contents Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. or foreign changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification 740, Income Taxes (“ASC 740”) (formerly referenced as FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes —an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”). ASC 740 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, information systems, security systems, vendors and customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses, and financial condition. We have significant manufacturing and distribution facilities, particularly in the western U.S. (i.e. California) and in Germany. In particular, California has experienced a number of earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, landslides and other natural disasters in recent years. Occurrences of these types of events could damage or destroy our facilities which may result in interruptions to our business and losses that exceed our insurance coverage. Terrorist attacks have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. (such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001), and further acts of terrorism, bioterrorism, violence or war could affect the markets in which we operate, our business operations, our expectations and other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated in this document. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Credit risks associated with our customers may adversely affect our financial position or result of operations. Because trade credit is extended to many of our customers, the current global economic condition may adversely affect our ability to collect on accounts receivable that are owed to us. In general, our customers are evaluated for their credit worthiness as part of our operating policy, and letters of credit are utilized to mitigate credit risks when possible. We believe we have adopted the appropriate operating policies to address the customer credit risk under a stable economic environment. Nevertheless, given the current global economic situation we could experience delays in collection on accounts receivable that are owed to us. As a result, this could adversely affect our financial position or result of operations. Fluctuations in worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation could affect our operating results. The demand for analytical instrumentation products can fluctuate depending upon capital expenditure cycles. Most companies consider our instrumentation products capital equipment and some customers may be unable to secure the necessary capital expenditure approvals due to general economic or customer specific conditions. Significant fluctuations in demand could harm our results of operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. A high proportion of our costs are fixed due in part to our significant sales and marketing, research and product development and manufacturing costs. Declines in revenue caused by fluctuations in currency rates, worldwide demand for analytical instrumentation or other factors could disproportionately affect our quarterly operating results, which may in turn cause our stock price to decline. A significant portion of our cash is maintained overseas. Most of our short-term debt is in the U.S. While there is a substantial cash requirement in the U.S. to fund operations and capital expenditures, service debt obligations, finance potential acquisitions and continue authorized stock repurchases, a significant portion of our cash is maintained and generated from foreign operations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if we are unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the U.S. to address these requirements through cash from U.S. operations, efficient and timely repatriation of cash from overseas and other sources obtained at an acceptable cost. 11 Table of Contents Our results of operations and financial condition will suffer if we do not introduce new products that are attractive to our customers on a timely basis. Our products are highly technical in nature. As a result, many of our products must be developed months or even years in advance of the potential need by a customer. If we fail to introduce new products and enhancements as demand arises or in advance of the competition, our products are likely to become obsolete over time, which would harm operating results. Also, if the market is not receptive to our newly-developed products, our results of operations would be adversely impacted and we may be unable to recover the costs of research and product development and marketing associated with such products. The analytical instrumentation market is highly competitive, and our inability to compete effectively in this market would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The analytical instrumentation market is highly competitive and we compete with many companies on a local and international level that are significantly larger than we are and have greater resources, including larger sales forces and technical staff. Competitors may introduce more effective and less costly products and, in doing so, may make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. If this occurs, our market share may decline and operating results could suffer. We may experience difficulties with obtaining components from sole- or limited-source suppliers, or manufacturing delays, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Most raw materials, components and supplies that we purchase are available from many suppliers. However, certain items are purchased from sole or limited-source suppliers and a disruption of these sources could adversely affect our ability to ship products as needed. A prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components would likely reduce product inventory, hinder sales and harm our reputation with customers. Worldwide demand for certain components may cause the cost of such components to rise or limit the availability of these components, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We manufacture products in our facilities in Germany, the Netherlands and the U.S. Any prolonged disruption to the operations at these facilities, whether due to labor unrest, supplier issues, damage to the physical plants or equipment or other reasons, could also adversely affect our results of operations. Our executive officers and other key employees are critical to our business, they may not remain with us in the future and finding talented replacements may be difficult. Our operations require managerial and technical expertise. Each of our executive officers and key employees is employed “at will” and may leave our employment at any time. In addition, we operate in a variety of locations around the world where the demand for qualified personnel may be extremely high and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. As a result, competition for personnel can be intense and the turnover rate for qualified personnel may be high. The loss of any of our executive officers or key employees could cause us to incur increased operating expenses and divert senior management resources in searching for replacements. An inability to hire, train and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees would seriously affect our ability to conduct our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and may face intellectual property infringement claims. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot be certain that: • any of our pending patent applications or any future patent applications will result in issued patents; • the scope of our patent protection will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us; • any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or • others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. 12 Table of Contents Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others have not or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any patents issued, or that may be issued, in the future to us or to our licensors. Whether or not patents are issued to us or to our licensors, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products developed by us. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits, whether or not such suits have merit, or in asserting any patent rights, including those granted by third parties. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights from third parties. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptance terms, if at all. Our issued U.S. patents, and corresponding foreign patents, expire at various dates ranging from 2010 to 2029. When each of our patents expires, competitors may develop and sell products based on the same or similar technologies as those covered by the expired patent. We have invested in significant new patent applications, and we cannot be certain that any of these applications will result in an issued patent to enhance our intellectual property rights. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 