Item 1A. Risk Factors. Possible Additional Risks The risks listed here are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that are not presently known, or that we presently deem to be immaterial, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects. (See also “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for certain forward looking statements.) Recent Market, Legislative, and Regulatory Events Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) but spreading to other securities and loans have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit and fraud losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Numerous facts and circumstances are considered when evaluating the carrying value of our goodwill. One of those considerations is our market capitalization, evaluated over a reasonable period of time, in relation to the aggregate estimated fair value of the reporting units. While this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic and political environment. However, significant and/or sustained declines in First Financial’s market capitalization, especially in relation to First Financial’s book value, could be an indication of potential impairment of goodwill. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that enacted legislation or any proposed federal programs will stabilize the U.S. financial system and such legislation and programs may adversely affect us. There has been much legislative and regulatory action in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the legislation and its implementing regulations or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the actions by the legislators, the regulatory bodies or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common shares. 7 Contemplated and proposed legislation, state and federal programs, and increased government control or influence may adversely affect us by increasing the uncertainty in our lending operations and expose us to increased losses, including legislation that would allow bankruptcy courts to permit modifications to mortgage loans on a debtor’s primary residence, moratoriums on a mortgagor’s right to foreclose on property, and requirements that fees be paid to register other real estate owned property. Statutes and regulations may be altered that may potentially increase our costs to service and underwrite mortgage loans. Additionally, federal intervention and operation of formerly private institutions may adversely affect our rights under contracts with such institutions and the way in which we conduct business in certain markets. Treasury “Stress Tests” and Other Actions may Adversely Affect Bank Operations and Value of Shares. On February 10, 2009, the Treasury outlined a plan to restore stability to the financial system. This announcement included reference to a plan by the Treasury to conduct “stress tests” of certain banks which received funds under the CPP and similar Treasury programs. The methods and procedures to be used by the Treasury in conducting its “stress tests,” how these methods and procedures will be applied, and the significance or consequence of such tests presently are not known. Any of these or their consequences could adversely affect the banking industry in general, and the value of First Financial shares, among other things. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. The resultant changes in interest rates can also materially decrease the value of certain financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Risks Relating to Our Business Credit Risks When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. Large, individual loans, letters of credit and contracts magnify such credit risks. As lending is one of our primary business activities, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our total loan portfolio. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify. In addition, large loans, letters of credit and contracts with individual counterparties in our portfolio magnify the credit risk that we face, as the impact of large borrowers and counterparties not repaying their loans or performing according to the terms of their contracts has a disproportionately significant impact on our credit losses and reserves. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations decline, or continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could adversely affect us. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of many mortgage loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and profits on sales of mortgage loans. These trends could continue and such conditions could result in higher losses, write downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other lines of business. Continued declines in real estate values, home sale volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. A decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets. 8 Real estate volatility and future changes in our disposition strategies could result in net proceeds that differ significantly from our OREO fair value appraisals. Our other real estate owned (“OREO”) portfolio consists of properties that we obtained through foreclosure or through an in-substance foreclosure in satisfaction of loans. Properties in our OREO portfolio are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties previously served as collateral or the “fair value”, which represents the estimated sales price of the properties on the date acquired less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining “fair value” an orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as is currently being experienced and as experienced during 2008 and 2009. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, we may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly disposition as part of our OREO disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates used to determine the fair value of our OREO properties. The information that we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete, which may result in an increased risk of default and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, such as fraud. Moreover, such circumstances, including fraud, may become more likely to occur and/or be detected in periods of general economic uncertainty, such as at the present time. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the risks of a counterparty. In addition, in cases where we have extended credit against collateral, we may find that we are undersecured, for example, as a result of sudden declines in market values that reduce the value of collateral or due to fraud with respect to such collateral. If such events or circumstances were to occur, it could result in a potential loss of revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Recently declining values of real estate, increases in unemployment, and the related effects on local economies may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. Additionally, increases in unemployment also may adversely affect the ability of certain clients to pay loans and the financial results of commercial clients in localities with higher unemployment, which may result in loan defaults and foreclosures and which may impair the value of our collateral. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may increase in the future. 9 Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. Late in 2008 we began to experience a downturn in the overall credit performance of our loan portfolio, as well as acceleration in the deterioration of general economic conditions. This deterioration, including a significant increase in national and regional unemployment levels and decreased sources of liquidity are the primary drivers of the increased stress being placed on most borrowers and is negatively impacting their ability to repay. These conditions resulted in an increase in our loan loss reserves. We expect credit quality to remain challenging and could continue to deteriorate for much of 2010, notably in commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio could significantly increase nonperforming loans, require additional increases in loan loss reserves, elevate charge-off levels and have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, given the size of our loan portfolio, it is possible that a deterioration in the credit quality of one or two of our largest credits could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, and results of operations. Because we have substantially fewer nonperforming assets than many of our peers, the credit quality of our loan portfolio in recent quarters has and may continue to deteriorate at a faster rate than many of our peers. The results of the internal stress test may not accurately predict the impact on our company if the condition of the economy were to continue to deteriorate. During 2009 we have conducted a number of internal stress tests. These stress tests were based on the tests that were administered to the nation’s 19 largest banks by the Treasury in connection with its Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. Under the stress tests, we applied the Treasury’s assumptions to estimate our credit losses, resources available to absorb those losses and any necessary additions to capital that would be required under the “more adverse” stress test scenario. While we believe we have appropriately applied the Treasury’s assumptions in performing our internal stress tests, we can not assure you that the results of this test are comparable to the results of stress tests performed and publicly released by the Treasury or that the results of our stress test would be the same if it had been performed by the Treasury. Moreover, the results of the stress tests may not accurately reflect the impact on our company if the economy does not improve or continues to deteriorate. Any continued deterioration of the economy could result in credit losses significantly higher, with a corresponding impact on our resources and capital requirements, than those predicted by our internal stress tests. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We have seen a significant increase in the level of potential problem loans and other loans with higher than normal risk. We expect to receive more frequent requests from borrowers to modify loans. The related accounting measurements related to impairment and the loan loss allowance require significant estimates which are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. 10 State and federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We expect fluctuations in our loan loss provisions due to the uncertain economic conditions. Operating Risks The introduction, implementation, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies, including, but not limited to, the opening of new banking centers, may be less successful or may be different than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. First Financial makes certain projections and develops plans and strategies for its banking and financial products. If we do not accurately determine demand for our banking and financial products, it could result in us incurring significant expenses without the anticipated increases in revenue, which could result in a material adverse effect on its business. Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital or liquidity. Given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. In addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: · The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; · The value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we hold could decline; · The value of assets for which we provide processing services could decline; or · To the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business; such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there can be no assurance that these steps will be effective or reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. If the level of repurchase and indemnity activity becomes material, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. When clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. 11 Our asset management business subjects us to a variety of risks. At December 31, 2009, we had $2.2 billion in assets under management. The sharp decline in the stock market can negatively impact the amount of assets under management and thus subject our earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our ability to borrow funds in the unsecured wholesale debt markets. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. We rely on our systems, employees, and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and record-keeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in our diminished ability to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to clients and loss or liability to us. In addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Industry Risks Regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue, and profit margins. We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. 12 Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or reducing margins. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability. Future legislation could harm our competitive position. Federal, state, and local legislatures increasingly have been considering proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors’ rights, including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations. Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on the ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or development in technology or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases. Company Risks We may not pay dividends on your common shares. Holders of our common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common shares, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common shares dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Also, our ability to increase our dividend or to make other distributions was restricted due to our participation in the CPP, which limited (without the consent of the Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common shares for so long as any preferred securities issued under such program remain outstanding. Our ability to increase our dividend or to make other distributions is not impacted by the warrant held by Treasury. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Generally, we are not restricted from issuing additional common shares, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common shares. We are currently authorized to issue up to 160 million common shares, of which 57,825,699 shares are outstanding. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. These authorized but unissued shares could be issued on terms or in circumstances that could dilute the interests of other shareholders. Furthermore, in connection with our participation in the CPP, the U.S. Treasury received a warrant as discussed under “Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2009”, and we have agreed to provide the U.S. Treasury with certain anti-dilutive adjustments as well as registration rights. The issuance of additional common shares as a result of exercise of the warrant or otherwise or the issuance of securities convertible or exercisable into common shares would dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders. The market price of our common shares could decline as a result of this offering as well as other sales of a large block of common shares or similar securities in the market after this offering, or the perception that such sales could occur. Our liquidity is largely dependent upon our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries, which accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our ability to pay dividends, and we may be unable to enhance liquidity from other sources. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including First Financial Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our non-bank subsidiaries may pay us. Additionally, if our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders. 13 To enhance liquidity, we may depend upon borrowings under credit facilities or other indebtedness. We currently maintain a $25 million credit facility with an unaffiliated bank, which at December 31, 2009 had an outstanding balance of $0 and expires in late March, 2010. It is uncertain whether we may be successful in renewing such facility. As a result of recent turbulence in the capital and credit markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers and, as a result, we may not be able to further increase liquidity through additional borrowings. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries or an inability to increase liquidity through additional borrowings, or inability to maintain, renew or replace our existing credit facility, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on our common and preferred shares and interest and principal on our debt. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions that could impact our ability to compete for new business, constrain our ability to fund our liquidity needs, and increase the cost of our services. First Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of various State and Federal regulators, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, SEC, FINRA, and various state regulatory agencies. As such, First Financial is subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations, many of which are discussed in the “Business - Regulation” section. As part of their supervisory process, which includes periodic examinations and continuous monitoring, the regulators have the authority to impose restrictions or conditions on our activities and the manner in which we manage the organization. These actions could impact the organization in a variety of ways, including subjecting us to monetary fines, restricting our ability to pay dividends, precluding mergers or acquisitions, limiting our ability to offer certain products or services, or imposing additional capital requirements. Disruptions in our ability to access capital markets may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on wholesale capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. Other sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity risk management strategy, include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank system. Any occurrence that may limit our access to these sources, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, or our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Management’s ability to retain key officers and employees may change. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of its executive officers and key personnel. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, financial, technical, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. Our ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. For example, Section 7001 of the ARRA which amended Section 111 of the EESA in its entirety, as well as the interim regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury, significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions. Such restrictions applied to us as a participant in the CPP and generally continued to apply for as long as any Senior Preferred shares were outstanding. These ARRA restrictions shall not apply to us during such time when the federal government only holds warrants to purchase common shares. Such restrictions and standards may further impact management's ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as First Financial under Section 7001 of the ARRA. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of its key employees, or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value and we may not be able to successfully consummate or integrate such acquisitions. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; · difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company; · difficulty in receiving appropriate regulatory approval for any proposed transaction; 14 · difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and · potential changes in accounting, banking, or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions could involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Any merger or acquisition opportunity that we decide to pursue will ultimately be subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions. We may expend substantial time and resources pursuing potential acquisitions which may not be consummated because regulatory approval is not received or other closing conditions are not satisfied. In addition, our existing credit facility and the terms of other indebtedness that we may subsequently incur may restrict our ability to consummate certain acquisitions. Furthermore, any difficulty integrating businesses acquired as a result of a merger or acquisition and the failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition and any such integration could divert management’s time and attention from managing our company in an effective manner and could be significantly more expensive than we anticipate. Our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and processes so they comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” in the MD&A and Note 1, “Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 for more information. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. Our results of operations depend upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. We are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our bank and other subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments on our common shares will depend primarily upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends or make other payments to us. As of the close of business on December 31, 2009, our bank subsidiary had an additional $223.7 million available to pay dividends to us without prior regulatory approval. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. 15 These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks. We maintain an available for sale investment securities portfolio which includes assets with various types of instruments and maturities. We also maintain certain assets that are classified and accounted for as trading assets. The changes in fair value of the available for sale securities are recognized in shareholders equity as a component of other comprehensive income. The changes in fair value of financial instruments classified as trading assets are carried at fair value and recognized in earnings. The financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and market liquidity. We manage the market risks associated with these instruments through broad asset/liability management strategies. Changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. Our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks. We generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income markets. Unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark to market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including our credit position, interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. Our return on such investments could experience volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. The Internal Revenue Service and other taxing jurisdictions may propose various adjustments to our previously filed tax returns. It is possible that the ultimate resolution of such proposed adjustments, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations in the period it occurs. In the ordinary course of business, we operate in various taxing jurisdictions and are subject to income and non-income taxes. The effective tax rate is based in part on our interpretation of the relevant current tax laws. We believe the aggregate liabilities related to taxes are appropriately reflected in the consolidated financial statements. We review the appropriate tax treatment of all transactions taking into consideration statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance in the context of our tax positions. In addition, we rely on various tax opinions, recent tax audits, and historical experience. From time to time, we engage in business transactions that may have an effect on our tax liabilities. Where appropriate, we have obtained opinions of outside experts and have assessed the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of business transactions taking into account statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. However, changes to our estimates of accrued taxes can occur due to changes in tax rates, implementation of new business strategies, resolution of issues with taxing authorities regarding previously taken tax positions prior to acquisition and newly enacted statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance. Such changes could affect the amount of our accrued taxes and could be material to our financial position and/or results of operations. In the event the Internal Revenue Service, State of Ohio, or other state tax officials propose adjustments to our previously filed tax returns (or those of our subsidiaries), it is possible that the ultimate resolution of the proposed adjustments, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations in the period it occurs. Risks Related to the Acquisition of the Business and Assets of Peoples Community Bank, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company and Irwin Union Bank, FSB. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with the acquisitions all of which may not be supported by the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. In connection with the acquisitions, we acquired a significant portfolio of loans. Although we marked down the loan portfolios we have acquired, there is no assurance that the non-impaired loans we acquired will not become impaired or that the impaired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs to this loan portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, which may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and, consequently, reduce our net income, may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolios that we have acquired in the acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. See “Business Risks – Credit Risks“ in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 for more information on the factors affecting the levels of these charge-offs. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we have acquired in connection with the acquisitions will be indemnified by the FDIC, we are not protected from all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. 16 We may fail to realize any benefits and incur unanticipated losses related to the assets of Peoples Community Bank, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company and Irwin Union Bank, FSB that First Financial Bank acquired and the liabilities of Peoples Community Bank, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company and Irwin Union Bank, FSB that were assumed. The success of these acquisitions will depend, in part, on First Financial’s ability to successfully combine the acquired businesses and assets with First Financial’s business and First Financial’s ability to successfully manage the significant loan portfolio that was acquired. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly with respect to the acquisition nearly doubling the size of First Financial and the large increase in the number of bank branches, there may be business and service changes and disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect First Financial’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Successful integration may also be hampered by differences between the organizations. Although First Financial had significant operations in the principal regional markets in which the acquired entities operated, the loss of key employees of these entities could adversely affect First Financial’s ability to successfully conduct business in certain local markets in which the entities operated, which could have an adverse effect on First Financial’s financial results. Integration efforts will also divert attention and resources from First Financial’s management. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit the ability to successfully integrate the institutions. If First Financial experiences difficulties with, or delays in, the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Furthermore, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings. Finally, First Financial will need to ensure that the banking operations of the acquired entities maintain effective disclosure controls as well as internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, and such compliance efforts may be costly and may divert the attention of management. First Financial’s Exchange Act reports contain limited financial information on which to evaluate the acquisition of Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company and Irwin Union Bank, FSB. The acquisition of the banking operations and certain assets of Irwin Union Bank and Irwin FSB are significant acquisitions for First Financial; however, First Financial’s Exchange Act reports contain limited financial information on which to evaluate these acquisitions. First Financial’s Exchange Act reports may not contain all of the financial and other information about Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company and Irwin Union, FSB and the assets that were acquired and liabilities assumed that investors may consider important, including information related to the loan portfolio acquired and the impact of the acquisition on First Financial. First Financial will be expanding operations into new geographic areas. Portions of the market areas represented by Irwin Union Bank and Irwin FSB, including those in Arizona, California, Nevada and Utah, are areas in which First Financial historically conducted no banking activities. Although First Financial has indicated it plans to divest itself of banking centers in areas outside its strategic footprint, in the interim, First Financial must effectively integrate these new markets to retain and expand the business currently conducted by these branches while maintaining appropriate risk controls. The ability to compete effectively in the new markets will be dependent on First Financial’s ability to understand the local market and competitive dynamics and identify and retain certain employees from Irwin who know their markets better than First Financial does. Furthermore, the operations of the acquired franchise lending business will increase the concentration risk of First Financial’s lending in this area and First Financial will rely on the expertise of those individuals currently at the acquired franchise group. Prior to the acquisition, Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company and a number of its subsidiaries, notably Irwin Home Equity and Irwin Mortgage Corporation were the subject of a number of legal actions regarding their mortgage and/or home equity lines of business and these matters may require significant resources and management attention. In connection with the acquisition of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Irwin Union Bank by First Financial Bank from the FDIC as receiver for Irwin Union Bank, First Financial assumed, subject to the terms of a Purchase and Assumption Agreement by and among the FDIC, the FDIC as receiver, and First Financial Bank dated September 18, 2009, as amended (the “Purchase Agreement”), certain legal claims against the subsidiaries of Irwin Union Bank. Some of these claims involve Irwin Union Bank prior to it being placed in receivership and are thus the responsibility of the FDIC as receiver pursuant to the Agreement. Furthermore, with respect to the claims involving the subsidiaries, First Financial Bank has or expects to submit requests for indemnification to the FDIC as receiver pursuant to Section 12 of the Purchase Agreement as amended. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the FDIC as receiver has agreed to indemnify and hold harmless First Financial Bank for certain claims against Irwin and its former subsidiaries for actions taken on or prior to September 18, 2009. There can be no assurances the FDIC will agree with our positions regarding indemnifications. 17 Although the assets and liabilities that the FDIC as receiver determines are subject to First Financial’s indemnification claims will be covered by the FDIC as receiver and thus excluded from the acquisition of Irwin Union Bank, during the process of integrating Irwin Union Bank and its subsidiaries with First Financial Bank, First Financial may discover other inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect First Financial’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Irwin Union Bank and could distract management from implementing its strategic plan. Furthermore, unless the FDIC as receiver assumes the defense of such claims, First Financial will have to expend considerable time and effort to defend the actions, subject to such indemnification. We have identified a number of claims against which we believe we should be indemnified pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, and we have submitted and expect to continue to submit requests for indemnification to the FDIC as receiver. The process of seeking indemnification from the FDIC as receiver with respect to such litigation could be time-consuming and subject to dispute. Further, until the FDIC as receiver has approved and reimbursed us for the claims for which we should be indemnified, we could be exposed to liabilities arising from the defense of such claims. Discussions are ongoing with the FDIC regarding indemnification with respect to certain actions taken by Irwin and/or its subsidiaries prior to September 18, 2009. The acquisitions have increased First Financial’s commercial real estate loan portfolio, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. With the acquisition of the Irwin entities loan portfolios, the commercial loan and construction loan portfolios have become a larger portion of First Financial Bank’s total loan portfolio than it was prior to the acquisitions. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending, because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate or construction project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be more difficult to dispose of in a market decline. First Financial Bank’s acquisitions of Peoples and Irwin from the FDIC have caused us to modify our disclosure controls and procedures, which may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our Exchange Act reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported adequately. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to cause the material information that we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act to be recorded, processed, summarized, and reported to the extent applicable within the time periods required by the SEC’s rules and forms. The internal control over financial reporting of Peoples’ and Irwin’s banking operations were excluded from the evaluation of effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the period ended December 31, 2009, because of the timing of the acquisitions. As a result of the Peoples and Irwin acquisitions, however, we will be implementing changes to processes, information technology systems and other components of internal control over financial reporting as part of our integration activities. Notwithstanding any changes to our disclosure controls and procedures resulting from our evaluation of the same after the Peoples and Irwin acquisitions, our control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our Exchange Act reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported adequately. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. 18 Certain fair value estimates and other measures associated with the assets of Peoples and Irwin acquired from the FDIC remain uncertain, and subject to change, based on future determinations made by the FDIC, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have determined that the acquisitions of the net assets of Peoples and Irwin constitute business combinations as defined under GAAP. Accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been presented by us in our financial statements at their fair values as required. In many cases, the determination of these fair values requires management to make estimates about discount rates, future expected cash flows, market conditions and other future events that are highly subjective in nature and subject to change. Under GAAP, these fair value estimates are considered preliminary, and remain subject to change for up to one year after the closing dates of the acquisitions as additional information relative to closing date fair values becomes available. We and the FDIC are engaged in on-going discussions that may impact which assets and liabilities were acquired or assumed by First Financial and/or the associated purchase prices. Based upon these discussions, there could be further adjustments to those assets acquired or assumed. In addition, the tax treatment of FDIC assisted acquisitions is complex and subject to interpretations that may result in future adjustments of deferred taxes as of the acquisition dates. Any future changes to such measures or determinations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. First Financial Bank’s failure to fully comply with the loss-sharing provisions relating to its acquisitions of Peoples and Irwin from the FDIC could jeopardize the loss-share coverage afforded to certain individual or pools of assets, rendering First Financial Bank financially responsible for the full amount of any losses related to such assets. In connection with First Financial Bank’s acquisitions of Peoples and Irwin from the FDIC, First Financial Bank entered into loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC whereby the FDIC has agreed to cover 80% of the losses on certain single family residential mortgage loans and certain commercial loans (together, “covered assets”), and 95% of the losses on such covered assets in excess of thresholds stated in the loss-sharing agreements. First Financial Bank’s management of and application of the terms and conditions of the loss-sharing provisions of the Purchase and Assumption Agreements related to the covered assets is monitored by the FDIC through periodic reports that First Financial Bank must submit to the FDIC and on-site compliance visitations by the FDIC. If First Financial Bank fails to fully comply with its obligations under the loss-sharing provisions of the Purchase and Assumption Agreements relating to First Financial Bank’s acquisitions of Peoples and Irwin from the FDIC, First Financial Bank could lose the benefit of the loss-share coverage as it applies to certain individual or pools of covered assets. Without such loss-share coverage, First Financial Bank would be solely financially responsible for the losses sustained by such individual or pools of assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 