Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investments in First Financial common shares involve risk. The market price of First Financial common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • management’s ability to effectively execute its business plan; • the strength of the local economies in which operations are conducted; • the effects of and changes in policies and laws of regulatory agencies; • inflation, interest rates, market and monetary fluctuations; Table of Contents 7 • acts of terrorism and any governmental response to such acts; • technological changes; • mergers and acquisitions; • the ability to increase market share and control expenses; • the effect of changes in accounting policies and practices that may be adopted by the regulatory agencies as well as the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission; • the costs and effects of litigation and of unexpected or adverse outcomes in such litigation; • and the success of First Financial at managing the risks involved in the foregoing. If management of First Financial is not able to effectively execute its business plan, First Financial’s stock price may drop. Management has set an aggressive business plan and restructuring of the corporation in an effort to cause the corporation to improve its efficiency and earnings. If the plan is not implemented successfully, First Financial may not perform relative to its peers and securities analysts’ may change their estimates of the company’s financial performance, potentially decreasing the company’s stock price. If First Financial does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. First Financial’s ability to maintain its history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand its scope of available financial services to its customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, credit unions, and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit growth. First Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of operations. Changes to these laws could affect First Financial’s ability to deliver or expand its services and diminish the value of its business. Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. First Financial’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond First Financial’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Additional risks and uncertainties could have a negative effect on financial performance. Additional factors could have a negative effect on the financial performance of First Financial and First Financial common shares. Some of these factors are general economic and financial market conditions, competition, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions, and losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Table of Contents 8 