ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS All phases of the Company's operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are outside of its control and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect its results of operations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's expectations are discussed below. Prospective investors should carefully consider these factors before investing in our securities as well as the information set forth under "Forward-Looking Statements" in Item 7 of this report. These risks and uncertainties include: Competition from larger companies. The Company competes for franchise and license sales with large national companies and numerous regional and local companies. Many of its competitors have greater financial and other resources than the Company. The restaurant industry in general is intensely competitive with respect to convenience, price, product quality and service. In addition, the Company competes for franchise and license sales on the basis of several factors, including product engineering and quality, investment cost, cost of sales, distribution, simplicity of operation and labor requirements. Activities of the Company's competitors could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to sell additional franchises or licenses or maintain and renew existing franchises and licenses or operating results of the Company's system. Unlike the other non-traditional agreements, the take-n-bake license agreements with grocery stores are not for any specified period of time and, therefore, grocery stores could discontinue offering the take-n-bake pizza or other retail items at any time. As a result of these factors, the Company may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time or in certain markets. Dependence on growth strategy. The Company's primary growth strategy consists of selling new franchises or licenses for non-traditional locations. The opening and success of new non-traditional locations will depend upon various factors, including the traffic generated by and viability of the underlying activity or business, the ability of the franchisee and licensee to operate their locations, their ability to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and the effect of competition and general economic and business conditions including food and labor costs. Many of the foregoing factors are not within the Company's control. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve its plans with respect to the opening or operation of new non-traditional or take-n-bake locations. 10 Dependence on success of franchisees and licensees. Most of the Company's earnings comes from royalties generated by its franchisees and licensees which are independent operators, and their employees are not the Company's employees. The Company provides training and support to franchisees and licensees but the quality of the store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the Company's control. Consequently, franchisees and licensees may not successfully operate locations in a manner consistent with the Company's standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel. If they do not, the Company's image and reputation may suffer, and its revenues and stock price could decline. While the Company attempts to ensure that its franchisees and licensees maintain the quality of its brand and branded products, franchisees and licensees may take actions that adversely affect the value of the Company's intellectual property or reputation. Dependence on consumer preferences and perceptions. The restaurant industry and the retail food industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. The Company can be substantially adversely affected by publicity resulting from food quality, illness, injury, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Interruptions in supply or delivery of food products. Dependence on frequent deliveries of product from unrelated third-party manufacturers through unrelated third-party distributors also subjects the Company to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply caused by contractual interruptions, market conditions, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, factors such as inflation, market conditions for cheese, wheat, meats, paper and labor may also adversely affect the franchisees and licensees and, as a result, can adversely affect the Company's ability to add new franchised or licensed locations. Dependence on key executives. The Company's business has been and will continue to be dependent upon the efforts and abilities of its executive staff generally, and particularly Paul Mobley, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and A. Scott Mobley, our President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of either of their services could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is subject to ongoing litigation. As described in Item 3 of this report, the Company is a defendant in a lawsuit filed by certain of its former traditional franchisees. Although the Company has been awarded summary judgment effectively dismissing the claims against the Company, that order is subject to appeal. The plaintiffs in this lawsuit allege that they purchased traditional franchises from the Company as a result of certain fraudulent representations by the defendants in the case and the omission of certain material facts regarding the franchises. If the Company is subject to adverse findings in this litigation, it could be required to pay damages or have other remedies imposed, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The resolution of this matter has been time-consuming, expensive and distracted the Company's management from conducting the Company's 11 business. The Company believes the trial court's decision will be upheld on appeal, if any, but there can be no assurance that it will be until the appeal, if any, has been litigated. The Company will continue to pursue its counterclaims against the Plaintiffs. The Company is subject to Indiana law with regard to purchases of our stock. Certain provisions of Indiana law applicable to the Company could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of its common stock. These provisions include prohibitions against certain business combinations with persons that become "interested shareholders" (persons owning or controlling shares with voting power equal to 20% or more) unless the board of directors approves either the business combination or the acquisition of stock before the person becomes an "interested shareholder." The Company and its franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws with regard to the operation of the businesses. The Company is subject to regulation by the FTC and various state agencies pursuant to federal and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Several states also regulate aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. The FTC requires the Company to furnish to prospective franchisees a disclosure document containing certain specified information. Some states also regulate the sale of franchises and require registration of a franchise disclosure document with state authorities. Substantive state laws that regulate the franchisor-franchisee relationship presently exist in a substantial number of states, and bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time that would provide for federal regulation of the franchisor-franchisee relationship in certain respects. The state laws often limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions and the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise. Some foreign countries also have disclosure requirements and other laws regulating franchising and the franchisor-franchisee relationship, and the Company would be subject to applicable laws in each jurisdiction where it seeks to market additional franchise units. Each franchise location is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, safety, sanitation, building and other agencies and ordinances in the state or municipality in which the facility is located. The process of obtaining and maintaining required licenses or approvals can delay or prevent the opening of a franchise location. Vendors, such as the Company's third party production and distribution services, are also licensed and subject to regulation by state and local health and fire codes, and U. S. Department of Transportation regulations. The Company, its franchisees and its vendors are also subject to federal and state environmental regulations. The Company's stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and, accordingly, we are not subject to the same corporate governance standards that would apply if our shares were listed on a national exchange, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on a national exchange. Our stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a Nasdaq-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included on the Nasdaq Stock Market. We are not subject to the same corporate governance requirements that apply to exchange-listed companies. These requirements include having: a majority of independent directors; an audit committee of independent directors; and shareholder approval of certain equity compensation plans. As a result, quotation of our stock on the OTC Bulletin Board limits the liquidity 12 and price of our stock more than if our stock was quoted or listed on a national exchange. There is no assurance that the Company's stock will continue to be authorized for quotation by the OTC Bulletin Board or any other market in the future. Compliance with external assurance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources. The Company is not now required to comply with the external assurance requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 but could become subject to them in the future. Section 404 requires the Company to evaluate and report on the system of internal controls over financial reporting, however, the Company is not currently required to have its independent registered public accountants report on management's evaluation of our system of internal controls or certify its compliance with the rules related to its system of internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to various sanctions. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could adversesly affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 