ITEM 1A. Risk Factors YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING QUANTUM. ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES NOT PRESENTLY KNOWN TO US OR THAT ARE CURRENTLY DEEMED IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS “FORWARD-LOOKING” STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. PLEASE SEE PAGE 1 OF THIS REPORT FOR ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION OF THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. We rely on indirect sales channels to market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of or deterioration in our relationship with one or more of our resellers or distributors could negatively affect our operating results. We sell the majority of our branded products to value-added resellers, or VARs, and to direct marketing resellers such as CDW Corporation, who in turn sell our products to end users, and to distributors such as Bell Microproducts, Inc., Ingram Micro, Inc. and others. We also have a relationship with EMC Corporation (“EMC”) through which we make available our branded products that complement EMC’s product offerings. The success of these sales channels is hard to predict, particularly over time, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from them that assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Several of our resellers carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A reseller might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each reseller determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Certain of our contracts with our distributors contain “most favored nation” pricing provisions mandating that we offer our products to these customers at the lowest price offered to other similarly situated customers. In addition, sales of our enterprise-class libraries, and the revenue associated with the on-site service of those libraries, are somewhat concentrated in specific customers, including government agencies and government-related companies. Our operating results could be adversely affected by any number of factors including: • A change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a reseller’s willingness or ability to distribute our products; • The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products; • The loss of one or more of such distributors or resellers; • Any financial difficulties of such distributors or resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us; or • Changes in requirements or programs that allow our products to be sold by third parties to government customers. 11 Our operating results depend on new product introductions, which may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. To compete effectively, we must continually improve existing products and introduce new ones, such as our new DXi-Series product offerings and next generation StorNext software. We have devoted and expect to continue to devote considerable management and financial resources to these efforts. We cannot provide assurance that: • We will introduce new products in the timeframe we are forecasting; • We will not experience technical, quality, performance-related or other difficulties that could prevent or delay the introduction and market acceptance of new products; • Our new products will achieve market acceptance and significant market share, or that the markets for these products will continue or grow as we have anticipated; • Our new products will be successfully or timely qualified with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications which must occur before customers will place large product orders; or • We will achieve high volume production of these new products in a timely manner, if at all. If we are not successful in timely completion of our new product qualifications and then ramping sales to our key customers, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the quality of our products is not acceptable to our customers, this could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty and repair costs. Competition has increased and evolved, and may increasingly intensify, in the tape and disk storage products markets as a result of competitors introducing products based on new technology standards, and merger and acquisition activity, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our disk backup systems compete with product offerings of EMC, Hewlett Packard Co. (“HP”), International Business Machines (“IBM”) and NetApp, Inc. A number of our competitors also license technology from competing start-up companies such as FalconStor Software, Inc. and Sepaton Inc. These competitors are aggressively trying to advance and develop new technologies and products to compete against our technologies and products, and we face the risk that customers could choose competitor products over ours due to these features and technologies. Competition in the disk backup systems market, including deduplication and replication technologies, is characterized by technological innovation and advancement. As a result of competition and new technology standards, our sales or gross margins for disk backup systems could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our tape automation products compete with product offerings of Dell Inc. (“Dell”), HP, IBM and Oracle Corporation (“Oracle”). Increased competition has resulted in decreased prices for entry-level tape automation products and more product offerings by our competitors that incorporate new features and technologies. We face risks that customers could choose competitor products over ours due to these features and technologies. If competition further intensifies, or if industry consolidation occurs, our sales and gross margins for tape automation systems could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our tape drive business competes with companies that develop, manufacture, market and sell tape drive and tape automation products. The principal competitors for our tape drive products include HP and IBM. These competitors are aggressively trying to advance and develop new technologies and products to compete against our technologies and products. This intense competition, and additional factors, such as the possibility of further industry consolidation, has resulted in decreased prices of tape drives and increasingly commoditized products. Our response has been to manage our tape drive business at the material margin level and we have chosen not to compete for sales in intense price-based situations. Our focus has shifted to higher margin opportunities in other product lines. Although revenue from tape drives has decreased in recent years, our material margins have remained relatively stable over this period. We face risk of reduced shipments of our tape drive products, and could have reduced margins on these products, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Additionally, the competitive landscape continues to change due to merger and acquisition activity in the storage industry, such as the purchase of Sun by Oracle Corporation and the acquisition of Data Domain by EMC. Transactions such as these may impact us in a number of ways. For instance, they could result in: • Smaller number of competitors having greater resources and becoming more competitive with us; • Companies that we have not historically competed against entering into one or more of our primary markets and increasing competition in that market(s); and • Customers that are also competitors becoming more competitive with us and/or reducing their purchase of our products. These transactions also create uncertainty and disruption in the market, given that it is often unknown whether a pending transaction will be completed, the timing of such a transaction, and its degree of impact. Given these factors and others, such merger and acquisition activity may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully manage the changes that we have made and may continue to make to our infrastructure and management, our business could be disrupted, and that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Managing change is an important focus for us. In recent years, we have implemented several significant initiatives involving our sales and marketing, engineering and operations organizations, aimed at increasing our efficiency and better aligning these groups with our corporate strategy. In addition, we have reduced headcount to streamline and consolidate our supporting functions as appropriate following past acquisitions and in response to market or competitive conditions. Our inability to successfully manage the changes that we implement, and detect and address issues as they arise could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We derive the majority of our revenue from products incorporating tape technology. If competition from new or alternative storage technologies continues or increases, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We derive the majority of our revenue from products that incorporate some form of tape technology and we expect to continue to derive a majority of our revenue from these products for the foreseeable future. As a result, our future operating results depend in significant part on the continued market acceptance of products employing tape drive technology. Our tape products, including tape drives and automation systems, are increasingly challenged by products using hard disk drive technology, such as VTL, standard disk arrays and NAS. If disk backup products gain comparable or superior market acceptance, or their costs decline far more rapidly than tape drive and media costs, the competition resulting from these products would increase as our tape customers migrate toward them. We are working to address this risk through our own targeted investment in disk products and other alternative technologies, but these markets are characterized by rapid innovation, evolving customer demands and strong competition, including competition with several companies who are also significant customers. If we are not successful in our efforts, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 13 We continue to face risks related to the economic crisis. The economic crisis in the U.S. and global financial markets had and may continue to have a material and adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. Uncertainty about economic conditions always poses a risk as businesses may further reduce or postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. In addition, economic conditions over the past year have resulted in the reduced credit worthiness and bankruptcies of certain customers and increased our potential exposure to bad debt, and a global disruption in the credit markets, which continues to affect consumers’ and businesses’ efforts to obtain credit. These factors have had a material negative effect on our business and the demand for our products, the initial impact of which was reflected in our results for the second quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition, our ability to access capital markets may be restricted which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Another global economic crisis like the one that we recently experienced would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information regarding the impact of current economic conditions on our results of operations and financial condition, refer to Item 2 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” A large percentage of our sales come from a few customers, some of which are also competitors, and these customers generally have no minimum or long-term purchase commitments. The loss of, or a significant reduction in demand from, one or more key customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our sales have been and continue to be concentrated among a few customers. Sales to our top five customers in fiscal 2010 represented 37% of total revenue. This sales concentration does not include revenues from sales of our media that our licensees sold to these customers, for which we earn royalty revenue. Furthermore, customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum product volume and our relationships with our customers are terminable at will. As an example, in fiscal 2010, sales to Dell contributed approximately 13% of our revenue, a decline from prior years. If we experience further declines in revenue from Dell or any of our other large customers, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain of our large customers are also our competitors, and such customers could decide to reduce or terminate their purchases of our products for competitive reasons. Merger and acquisition activity, such as the purchase of Data Domain by EMC, could increase the risk that large customers reduce or terminate their purchases of our products. Many of our tape and disk products are primarily incorporated into larger storage systems or solutions that are marketed and sold to end users by our large OEM customers as well as our value added resellers, channel partners and other distributors. Because of this, we have limited market access to these end users, limiting our ability to reach and influence their purchasing decisions. These market conditions further our reliance on these OEM and other large customers. Thus if they were to significantly reduce, cancel or delay their orders with us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our products fail to meet our or our customers’ specifications for quality and reliability, our results of operations may be adversely impacted and our competitive position may suffer. Although we place great emphasis on product quality, we may from time to time experience problems with the performance of our products, which could result in one or more of the following: • Increased costs related to fulfillment of our warranty obligations; • The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products; • Focused failure analysis causing distraction of the sales, operations and management teams; or • The loss of reputation in the market and customer goodwill. These factors could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. 14 We have significant indebtedness, which has substantial debt service obligations and operating and financial covenants that constrain our ability to operate our business. Unless we are able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet these debt obligations, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In connection with our acquisition of Advanced Digital Information Corporation in August 2006, we incurred significant indebtedness and increased interest expense obligations. As of March 31, 2010, the total amount outstanding under the Credit Suisse senior secured credit agreement (“CS credit agreement”) was $186.1 million. In addition, in connection with our efforts to refinance our convertible subordinated notes, we have incurred $121.7 million in additional subordinated long-term debt with EMC International Company that has a higher coupon interest rate. Our level of indebtedness presents significant risks to investors, both in terms of the constraints that it places on our ability to operate our business and because of the possibility that we may not generate sufficient cash to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it becomes due. The significance of our substantial debt could have important consequences, such as: • Requiring that we dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other cash requirements; • Making it more difficult or impossible for us to make payments on other indebtedness or obligations; • Increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete, such as limiting our ability to engage in mergers and acquisitions activity, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and • Limiting our ability to incur additional debt on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, there is a risk that we may not be able to repay our debt obligations as they become due. We incurred significant losses from fiscal 2002 through fiscal 2009. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other general corporate needs depends upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service these debt obligations, or that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs. Unless we are able to maintain our cash flows from operations we may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, which would require that we reduce or delay capital expenditures and/or sell assets, thereby affecting our ability to remain competitive and materially and adversely affecting our business. Such a failure to repay our debt obligations when due would result in default under our loan agreements, which would give our lenders the right to seize all of our assets. Any such inability to meet our debt obligations could therefore have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Credit Suisse credit agreement contains various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our CS credit agreement contains numerous restrictive covenants that require us to comply with and maintain certain financial tests and ratios, as well as restrict our ability to: • Incur debt; • Incur liens; • Make acquisitions of businesses or entities or sell certain assets; • Make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; • Make capital expenditures beyond a certain threshold; • Engage in transactions with affiliates; • Pay dividends or engage in stock repurchases; and • Enter into certain restrictive agreements. 15 Our ability to comply with covenants contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. In prior years, we violated certain financial covenants under a prior credit agreement and received waivers or amendments for such violations. Even if we are able to comply with all covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. Our CS credit agreement is secured by a pledge of all of our assets. If we were to default under our CS credit agreement and were unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, the lenders would have a right to foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the CS credit agreement. Any such action on the part of the lenders against us could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our tape media royalties, branded software and OEM DXi software revenues are relatively profitable and can significantly impact total company profitability. A significant decline in royalty, branded software or OEM DXi software revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our tape media royalty revenues depend on many factors, including the following: • The size of the installed base of tape drives that use our tape cartridges; • The performance of our strategic licensing partners, which sell tape media cartridges; • The relative growth in units of newer tape drive products, since the associated media cartridges typically sell at higher prices than the media cartridges associated with older tape drive products; • The media consumption habits and rates of end users; • The pattern of tape drive retirements; and • The level of channel inventories. To the extent that our media royalties depend upon royalty rates and the quantity of media consumed by the installed base of our tape drives, reduced royalty rates, or a reduced installed tape drive base, would result in further reductions in our media royalty revenue. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our branded software revenues are also dependent on many factors, including the success of competitive offerings, our ability to execute on our product roadmap and our effectiveness at marketing and selling our branded software solutions directly or through our channel partners. Our OEM DXi software revenues also depend on many factors, including the success of competitive offerings, our ability to execute on our product roadmap with our OEM DXi software partners, the effort our OEM DXi software partners put into marketing and selling the resulting products, the market acceptance of the resulting products and changes in the competitive landscape such as that which occurred with EMC’s purchase of Data Domain. Our relationship with EMC changed from partner to competitor in deduplication as a result of their acquisition of Data Domain. Following this acquisition, our OEM DXi software revenue has significantly declined, which has negatively impacted our results. We have taken considerable steps towards reducing our cost structure and may take further cost reduction actions. The steps we have taken and may take in the future may not reduce our cost structure to a level appropriate in relation to our future sales and therefore, these anticipated cost reductions may be insufficient to result in consistent profitability. In the last several years, we have recorded significant restructuring charges and made cash payments in order to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses to rationalize our operations following past acquisitions and in response to adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions. We may take future steps to further reduce our operating costs, including those we undertook recently, as described below in “Results of Operations” within Item 2 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” These steps and additional future restructurings in response to rationalization of operations following strategic decisions, adverse changes in our business or industry or future acquisitions may require us to make cash payments that, if large enough, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. We may be unable to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses at a rate and to a level consistent with a future potential adverse sales environment, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 16 Our inability to attract and retain skilled employees could adversely impact our business. We may be subject to increased turnover in our employee base or the inability to fill open headcount requisitions due to concerns about our operational performance, capital structure, competition or other factors. In addition, we may rely on the performance of employees whose skill sets are not sufficiently developed enough to completely realize the expected fulfillment of their job responsibilities. Either of these situations could impair or delay our ability to realize operational and strategic objectives and cause increased expenses and lost sales opportunities. Economic or other business factors may lead us to further write down the carrying amount of our goodwill or long-lived assets, such as the $339 million goodwill impairment charge taken in fiscal 2009, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We evaluate our goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently when indicators of impairment are present. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment might exist. We continue to monitor relevant market and economic conditions, including the price of our stock, and perform appropriate impairment reviews when conditions deteriorate such that we believe the value of our goodwill could be further impaired or an impairment exists in our long-lived assets. It is possible that conditions may worsen due to economic or other factors that affect our business, resulting in the need to write down the carrying amount of our goodwill or long-lived assets to fair value at the time of such assessment. As a result, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Third party intellectual property infringement claims could result in substantial liability and significant costs, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, third parties allege our infringement of and need for a license under their patented or other proprietary technology. While we currently believe the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to any such actions will not materially affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, the ultimate outcome of any license discussion or litigation is uncertain. Adverse resolution of any third party infringement claim could subject us to substantial liabilities and require us to refrain from manufacturing and selling certain products. In addition, the costs incurred in intellectual property litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. As a result, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain products or technologies acquired or developed by us may include so-called “open source” software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge. Certain open source software licenses, however, require users of the open source software to license to others any software that is based on, incorporates or interacts with, the open source software under the terms of the open source license. Although we endeavor to comply fully with such requirements, third parties could claim that we are required to license larger portions of our software than we believe we are required to license under open source software licenses. If such claims were successful, they could adversely impact our competitive position and financial results by providing our competitors with access to sensitive information that may help them develop competitive products. In addition, our use of open source software may harm our business and subject us to intellectual property claims, litigation or proceedings in the future because: • Open source license terms may be ambiguous and may subject us to unanticipated obligations regarding our products, technologies and intellectual property; • Open source software generally cannot be protected under trade secret law; and • It may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the open source code and whether the open source software infringes, misappropriates or violates third party intellectual property or other rights. 17 As a result of our global manufacturing and sales operations, we are subject to a variety of risks that are unique to businesses with international operations of a similar scope, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our manufacturing and sales operations and supply chain occurs in countries other than the U.S. We also have sales outside the U.S. We utilize contract manufacturers to produce certain of our products and have suppliers for various components, several of which have operations located in foreign countries including China, Hungary, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and Taiwan. Because of these operations, we are subject to a number of risks including: • Shortages in component parts and raw materials; • Import and export and trade regulation changes that could erode our profit margins or restrict our ability to transport our products; • The burden and cost of complying with foreign and U.S. laws governing corporate conduct outside the U.S.; • Adverse movement of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar (the currency in which our results are reported) and global economic conditions generally; • Inflexible employee contracts and employment laws that may make it difficult to terminate or change the compensation structure for employees in some foreign countries in the event of business downturns; • Potential restrictions on the transfer of funds between countries; • Political, military, social and infrastructure risks, especially in emerging or developing economies; • Import and export duties and value-added taxes; and • Natural disasters, including earthquakes, typhoons and tsunamis. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly, and past quarterly operating results should not be used to predict future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and could fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our quarterly operating results should not be used to predict future performance. Quarterly operating results could be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • Failure to complete shipments in the last month of a quarter during which a substantial portion of our products are typically shipped; • Customers canceling, reducing, deferring or rescheduling significant orders as a result of excess inventory levels, weak economic conditions or other factors; • Declines in royalty revenues; • Product development and ramp cycles and product performance or quality issues; • Poor execution of and performance against expected sales and marketing plans and strategies; • Reduced demand from our OEM customers; and • Increased competition. If we fail to meet our projected quarterly results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or if others use our proprietary technology without authorization, our competitive position may suffer. Our future success and ability to compete depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secrets laws and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. As of March 31, 2010, we held 504 U.S. patents and had 96 U.S. patent applications pending. However, we cannot provide assurance that patents will be issued with respect to pending or future patent applications that we have filed or plan to file or that our patents will be upheld as valid or will prevent the development of competitive products or that any actions we have taken will adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, potential customers and others as required, in which we strictly limit access to, and distribution of, our software, and further limit the disclosure and use of our proprietary information. 18 Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. Enforcing our intellectual property rights can sometimes only be accomplished through the use of litigation, such as in the litigation with Riverbed Technology, Inc. settled in fiscal 2009. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Because we may order components from suppliers in advance of receipt of customer orders for our products which include these components, we could face a material inventory risk, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Although we use third parties to manufacture certain of our products, we also manufacture products in-house. Managing our in-house manufacturing capabilities presents a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. For instance, as part of our component planning, we place orders with or pay certain suppliers for components in advance of receipt of customer orders. We occasionally enter into negotiated orders with vendors early in the manufacturing process of our storage products to ensure that we have sufficient components for our new products to meet anticipated customer demand. Because the design and manufacturing process for these components is complicated, it is possible that we could experience a design or manufacturing flaw that could delay or even prevent the production of the components for which we previously committed to pay. We also face the risk of ordering too many components, or conversely, not enough components, since supply orders are generally based on forecasts of customer orders rather than actual customer orders. In addition, in some cases, we make non-cancelable order commitments to our suppliers for work-in-progress, supplier’s finished goods, custom sub-assemblies, discontinued (end-of-life) components and Quantum-unique raw materials that are necessary to meet our lead times for finished goods. If we cannot change or be released from supply orders, we could incur costs from the purchase of unusable components, either due to a delay in the production of the components or other supplies or as a result of inaccurately predicting supply orders in advance of customer orders. Many of these same risks exist with our third party contract manufacturing partners. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected as a result of these increased costs. Some of our manufacturing, component production and service repair is outsourced to third party contract manufacturers, component suppliers and service providers. If we cannot obtain products, parts and services from these third parties in a cost effective and timely manner that meets our customers’ expectations, this could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many aspects of our supply chain and operational results are dependent on the performance of third party business partners. We face a number of risks as a result of these relationships, including, among others: • Sole source of product supplyIn many cases, our business partner may be the sole source of supply for the products or parts they manufacture, or the services they provide, for us. Because we are relying on one supplier, we are at greater risk of experiencing shortages, reduced production capacity or other delays in customer deliveries that could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales and increased expenses, which could materially damage customer relationships and result in lost revenue. • Cost and purchase commitmentsWe may not be able to control the costs we would be required to pay our business partners for the products they manufacture for us or the services they provide to us. They procure inventory to build our products based upon a forecast of customer demand that we provide. We could be responsible for the financial impact on the contract manufacturer, supplier or service provider of any reduction or product mix shift in the forecast relative to materials that they had already purchased under a prior forecast. Such a variance in forecasted demand could require us to pay them for finished goods in excess of current customer demand or for excess or obsolete inventory and generally incur higher costs. As a result, we could experience reduced gross margins and larger operating losses based on these purchase commitments. With respect to service providers, although we have contracts for most of our third party repair service vendors, the contract period may not be the same as the underlying service contract with our customer. In such cases, we face risks that the third party service provider may increase the cost of providing services over subsequent periods. 19 • Financial condition and stabilityOur third party business partners may suffer adverse financial or operational results or may be negatively impacted by the current economic climate. Therefore, we may face interruptions in the supply of product components or service as a result of financial instability within our supply chain. We could suffer production downtime or increased costs to procure alternate products or services as a result of the possible inadequate financial condition of one or more of our business partners. • Quality and supplier conductWe have limited control over the quality of products and components produced and services provided by our supply chain business partners. Therefore, the quality of the products, parts or services may not be acceptable to our customers and could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty costs. In addition, we have limited control over the manner in which our business partners conduct their business. Sub-tier suppliers selected by the primary third party could have process control issues or could select components with latent defects that manifest over a longer period of time. Therefore, we may face negative consequences or publicity as a result of a third party’s failure to comply with applicable compliance, trade, environmental or employment regulations. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past we have successfully transitioned products or component supply from one supplier to another existing supplier of different products, but there is no guarantee of our continued ability to do so. We do not control licensee sales of tape media cartridges. To the extent that our royalty revenue is dependent on the volumes of cartridges sold by our licensees, should these licensees significantly sell fewer media products, such decreased volumes could lower our royalty revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We receive a royalty fee based on tape media cartridges sold by Fujifilm Corporation, Imation Corporation, Hitachi Maxell, Limited, Sony Corporation and TDK Corporation. Under our license agreements with these companies, each of the licensees determines the pricing and number of units of tape media cartridges that it sells. Our royalty revenue varies depending on the level of sales of the various media cartridge offerings sold by the licensees. If licensees sell significantly fewer tape media cartridges, our royalty revenue would decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, lower prices set by licensees could require us to lower our prices on direct sales of tape media cartridges, which could reduce our revenue and margins on these products beyond anticipated decreases. As a result, lower prices on our tape media cartridges could reduce media revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our stock price could become more volatile if certain institutional investors were to increase or decrease the number of shares they own. In addition, there are other factors and events that could affect the trading prices of our common stock. Five institutional investors owned approximately 30% of our common stock as of March 31, 2010. If any or all of these investors were to decide to purchase significant additional shares or to sell significant or all of the common shares they currently own, that may cause our stock price to be more volatile. For example, there have been instances in the past where a shareholder with a significant equity position began to sell shares, putting downward pressure on our stock price for the duration of their selling activity. In these situations, selling pressure outweighed buying demand and our stock price declined. This situation has occurred due to our stock price falling below institutional investors’ price thresholds and our volatility increasing beyond investors’ volatility parameters causing even greater sell pressure. 20 Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of other events and factors, such as: • General economic conditions; • Changes in interest rates; • Fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for technology companies in particular; • Quarterly variations in our operating results; • New products, services, innovations and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; • Changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • Changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; and • Strategic acquisitions. Any of these events and factors may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Our design and production processes are subject to safety and environmental regulations which could lead to increased costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the use, storage, discharge and disposal of materials and substances used in our facilities and manufacturing processes as well as the safety of our employees and the public. Directives first introduced in the European Union impose a “take back” obligation on manufacturers for the financing of the collection, recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment and restrict the use of certain potentially hazardous materials, including lead and some flame retardants, in electronic products and components. Other jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally have since introduced similar requirements, and we anticipate that future regulations might further restrict allowable materials in our products, require the establishment of additional recycling or take back programs or mandate the measurement and reduction of carbon emissions into the environment. We have implemented procedures and will likely continue to introduce new processes to comply with current and future safety and environmental legislation. However, measures taken now or in the future to comply with such legislation may adversely affect our manufacturing or personnel costs or product sales by requiring us to acquire costly equipment or materials, redesign production processes or to incur other significant expenses in adapting our manufacturing programs or waste disposal and emission management processes. Furthermore, safety or environmental claims or our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, or the suspension of affected operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to many laws and regulations, and violation of or changes in those requirements could materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws regarding corporate conduct, fair competition, preventing corruption and import and export practices, including requirements applicable to U.S. government contractors. While we maintain a rigorous corporate ethics and compliance program, we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, significant monetary fines or penalties, suspension of business opportunities or loss of jurisdictional operating rights as a result of any failure to comply with those requirements. We may also be exposed to potential liability resulting from our business partners’ violation of these requirements. In addition, U.S. regulatory agencies have recently introduced new enforcement efforts that may proactively seek conduct-related information from companies operating in certain targeted industries or locations, without regard for whether potential violations have been identified. If we were to receive such an information request, we may incur increased personnel and legal costs in order to adequately review and respond to the request. Further our U.S. and international business models are based on currently applicable regulatory requirements and exceptions. Changes in those requirements or exceptions could necessitate changes to our business model. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. 21 We may be sued by our customers as a result of failures in our products. We face potential liability for performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. In addition, we could potentially face claims for product liability from our customers if our products cause property damage or bodily injury. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. We must maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories. If we do not have sufficient service parts inventories, we may experience increased levels of customer dissatisfaction. If we hold excessive service parts inventories, we may incur financial losses. We maintain levels of service parts inventories to satisfy future warranty obligations and also to earn service revenue by providing enhanced and extended warranty and repair service during and beyond the warranty period. We estimate the required amount of service parts inventories based on historical usage and forecasts of future warranty requirements, including estimates of failure rates and costs to repair, and out of warranty revenue. Given the significant levels of judgment inherently involved in the process, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories to satisfy customer needs and to avoid financial losses from excess service parts inventories. If we are unable to maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. Because we rely heavily on distributors and other resellers to market and sell our products, if one or more distributors were to experience a significant deterioration in its financial condition or its relationship with us, this could disrupt the distribution of our products and reduce our revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In certain product and geographic segments we heavily utilize distributors and value added resellers to perform the functions necessary to market and sell our products. To fulfill this role, the distributor must maintain an acceptable level of financial stability, creditworthiness and the ability to successfully manage business relationships with the customers it serves directly. Under our distributor agreements with these companies, each of the distributors determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to its customers. If the distributor is unable to perform in an acceptable manner, we may be required to reduce the amount of sales of our product to the distributor or terminate the relationship. We may also incur financial losses for product returns from distributors or for the failure or refusal of distributors to pay obligations owed to us. Either scenario could result in fewer of our products being available to the affected market segments, reduced levels of customer satisfaction and/or increased expenses, which could in turn have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time we make acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As a part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may make acquisitions in the future subject to certain debt covenants. We may also make significant investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions or significant investments, it could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks that we may face in our efforts to integrate any recent or future acquisitions include, among others: 22 • Failure to realize anticipated savings and benefits from the acquisition; • Difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees; • Potential incompatibility of business cultures; • Coordinating geographically separate organizations; • Diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • Coordinating infrastructure operations in a rapid and efficient manner; • The potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • Failure of acquired technology or products to provide anticipated revenue or margin contribution; • Insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; • Costs and delays in implementing or integrating common systems and procedures; • Reduction or loss of customer orders due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; • Impairment of existing customer, supplier and strategic relationships of either company; • Insufficient cash flows from operations to fund the working capital and investment requirements; • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • The possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment, the original investment may become impaired, and/or we may incur losses from these investments; • Dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company; • The assumption of risks of the acquired company that are difficult to quantify, such as litigation; • The cost associated with the acquisition; and • Assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated adverse events or circumstances. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If the future outcomes related to the estimates used in recording tax liabilities to various taxing authorities result in higher tax liabilities than estimated, then we would have to record tax charges, which could be material. We have provided amounts and recorded liabilities for probable and estimable tax adjustments that may be proposed by various taxing authorities in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. If events occur that indicate payments of these amounts will be less than estimated, then reversals of these liabilities would create tax benefits being recognized in the periods when we determine the liabilities have reduced. Conversely, if events occur which indicate that payments of these amounts will be greater than estimated, then tax charges and additional liabilities would be recorded. In particular, various foreign jurisdictions could challenge the characterization or transfer pricing of certain intercompany transactions. In the event of an unfavorable outcome of such challenge, there exists the possibility of a material tax charge and adverse impact on the results of operations in the period in which the matter is resolved or an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and estimable. Certain changes in stock ownership could result in a limitation on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryovers that can be utilized each year. Should we undergo such a change in stock ownership, it would severely limit the usage of these carryover tax attributes against future income, resulting in additional tax charges, which could be material. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates relative to our position in such currencies could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently use derivative financial instruments for foreign currency hedging or speculative purposes. To minimize foreign currency exposure, we use foreign currency obligations to match and offset net currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. We have used in the past, and may use in the future, foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. To the extent that we have assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency that are inadequately hedged or not hedged at all, we may be subject to foreign currency losses, which could be significant. 23 Our international operations can act as a natural hedge when both operating expenses and sales are denominated in local currencies. In these instances, although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of a foreign currency against the U.S. dollar would result in lower sales when translated to U.S. dollars, operating expenses would also be lower in these circumstances. An increase in the rate at which a foreign currency is exchanged for U.S. dollars would require more of that particular foreign currency to equal a specified amount of U.S. dollars than before such rate increase. In such cases, and if we were to price our products and services in that particular foreign currency, we would receive fewer U.S. dollars than we would have received prior to such rate increase for the foreign currency. Likewise, if we were to price our products and services in U.S. dollars while competitors priced their products in a local currency, an increase in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar would result in our prices being uncompetitive in those markets. Such fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 