Item 1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2 Properties 22 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 22 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B Other information 84 PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 84 Item 11 Executive Compensation 85 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 85 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 85 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 85 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 85 SIGNATURE 90 POWER OF ATTORNEY 91 i Table of Contents PART I This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements in this report usually contain the words “will,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “expect”, “believe” or similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words. All such forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, (1) our expectation that we will continue to derive a substantial majority of our revenue from products based on our tape technology; (2) our expectations regarding the amounts and timing of any future restructuring charges, including cost savings resulting therefrom; (3) our belief that strong competition in the tape drive, tape media and tape automation systems markets will result in further price erosion; (4) our belief that we have sufficient resources to cover the remaining tax liability under the Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement with Maxtor; (5) our belief that our existing cash and capital resources will be sufficient to meet all currently planned expenditures and sustain our operations for the next 12 months; (6) our expectation that we will return to profitability; (7) our goals for our future operating performance, including our revenue growth, amount and mix, our expectations regarding revenue, gross margin and operating expenses for fiscal 2008 and our cash flows; (8) our belief that our ultimate liability in any infringement claims made by any third parties against us will not be material to us; (9) our belief that we may make additional acquisitions in the future; (10) our expectations about the timing and maximum amounts of our future contractual payment obligations; (11) our belief that our total foreign exchange rate exposure is not significant; (12) our expectations regarding the benefits of our acquisition of ADIC, including that the combined company will allow us to grow our business and improve our results of operations; (13) our expectations regarding the timing of recognized compensation costs related to our equity awards; (14) our expectations relating to our growth into disk, software and services markets , (15) our expectations regarding our ongoing efforts to reduce our cost structure, including facilities and workforce reductions, (16) our expectations relating to the Quantum Alliance Reseller Program, (17) our assessment of the debt market and our opportunity to refinance our debt at better terms and improved covenants; and (18) our business objectives, key focuses, opportunities and prospects are inherently uncertain as they are based on management’s expectations and assumptions concerning future events, and they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. As a result, our actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein include, but are not limited to, (1) the amount of orders received in future periods; (2) our ability to timely ship our products; (3) uncertainty regarding IT spending and the corresponding uncertainty in the demand for tape drives and tape automation products; (4) our ability to realize anticipated benefits from the ADIC acquisition; (5) our ability to achieve anticipated pricing, cost and gross margin levels, particularly on tape drives, given lower volumes and continuing price and cost pressures; (6) the successful execution of our strategy to expand our businesses into new directions; (7) our ability to successfully introduce new products; (8) our ability to achieve and capitalize on changes in market demand; (9) our ability to pay down the principal and interest on our indebtedness; (10) our ability to maintain supplier relationships; and (11) those factors discussed under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. We disclaim any obligation to update information in any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1. Business Business Description Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”, the “Company”, “us” or “we”) (NYSE:QTM) founded in 1980, is a leading global storage company specializing in backup, recovery and archive. Combining focused expertise, customer-driven innovation, and platform independence, we provide a comprehensive, integrated range of disk, tape and software solutions supported by our sales and service organization. We work closely with a broad network of value-added resellers (“VARs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and other suppliers to meet customers’ evolving data protection needs. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. In August 2006, we acquired Advanced Digital Information Corporation (“ADIC”). The combined company offers a broad range of solutions in the data storage market, providing performance and value to organizations of all sizes, from Global 2000 enterprises to small businesses and satellite offices. We have a broad portfolio of disk-based backup solutions and are a leading provider of tape libraries and autoloaders, as well as a top supplier of tape drives and media. Our data management software provides technology for shared workflow applications and multi-tiered archiving in high-performance, large-scale storage environments. In addition, our service plan includes a broad range of coverage options to provide the level of support for the widest possible range of IT environments, with service available in 180 countries. In previous years, we reported two data storage business segments: Tape Drive and Storage Systems. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we began reporting one business segment as a result of organizational changes. These changes include the integration of marketing, sales and research and development functions to enhance product positioning and to lower the cost platforms within our business. As a result of these integration efforts, discrete financial information for these former segments is no longer tracked below the gross margin level, and management no longer measures operating performance nor makes resource allocation decisions on a segmented basis. 1 Table of Contents While continuing to develop and introduce new products in the storage market, we have also continued to take steps to reduce costs in order to return to profitability and rationalize our operations following various acquisitions. Since 2001, our business has experienced increased competition from other data storage and computer equipment manufacturers and a continuously challenging operating environment as evidenced by both operating and net losses. In recent years, the difficult market conditions often created pressures that resulted in generally lower unit prices, lower unit sales, or both. We have taken numerous cost reduction actions and have acquired companies with complementary technologies to increase our market share, improve our competitive position and offset the impact of recent financial trends. These steps are aimed at returning us to profitability. Strategy Update In fiscal 2006, we implemented a number of actions to improve our future performance and establish a strong foundation for us to compete in the storage solutions market with a focus on backup, recovery and archive. In fiscal 2007, we continued to implement actions to improve our future performance and competitive position in the market. One of our more notable actions was our acquisition of ADIC. In acquiring ADIC, we defined three primary objectives: (1) to expand market access, mainly by building a stronger branded business; (2) to create a stronger growth platform, particularly by expanding our disk-based backup systems and software businesses; and (3) to improve our financial position, taking advantage of cost reduction actions and enhanced revenue and profit opportunities. With this acquisition, we have expanded our market access, increased our product offerings, integrated technology from both companies into existing and new products and created opportunities for growth. Additionally, in fiscal 2007, we continued to streamline our operations to control costs while introducing new products and gaining market acceptance on our newer products. Customers’ backup, recovery and archive challenges are complex and rapidly evolving, and the need for a category expert is essential to success. We believe that our global scale and vertical integration in tape products, along with our growing branded business strength and decreasing cost structure, position us to build a strong, profitable storage systems business and improve our results of operations. In both the disk-based backup and software areas, we recently announced new products that leverage the combined technology of both companies and represent the first steps in executing on our integrated roadmap. Our priorities are focused on two key strategies. First, we want to create a growth platform beyond tape with solutions that include disk, software and services that are optimized for tiered storage environments. We will remain vigilant in identifying opportunities that will provide for gross margin and overall cost structure improvements. In addition, we want to build on our independent tape business by capitalizing on our unique position as an independent developer of tape drives, tape media and automation systems. We have a common customer base in the enterprise and larger midrange business segment whose storage needs are met by our tape automation and disk-based data protection solutions. Our strategy is to grow this market segment with our current product and service offerings to meet these customers’ growing needs. Further, we expect to grow in targeted vertical markets as our expanded sales force and channel partners create increased growth opportunities. Another strategic tenet is to grow revenue in the small and medium business segments. We have a strong portfolio of products to meet the varied needs of this customer base and will leverage our sales and marketing and channel efforts to provide tape drives, tape media and low-end tape automation product solutions. Further, we have introduced new products, such as GoVault™, and will continue to provide new technology solutions to meet the various needs within this market segment. We also intend to enhance media and technology license opportunities by maintaining our current royalty revenue stream with increased Linear Tape Open (“LTO” ®) royalties to offset declining Digital Linear Tape (“DLT”®) royalties. To augment our royalty revenue stream, we continue to build upon our strong intellectual property portfolio and pursue beneficial licensing opportunities. We have aligned our internal structure to implement these strategic actions as we continue to reduce costs from our various internal actions, expand our market access and introduce new products and technologies that meet the ever-growing needs in the backup, archive and recovery storage market. We continue our focus on expanding our disk-based data protection solutions including de-duplication and replication technologies and interface flexibility. In the tape automation area, we continue to expand our service offerings, strategic partnerships and value-add features. We also see opportunity as several key competitors struggle with the impact of industry consolidation and product transitions. This enables us to capitalize on our strengths to increase our market share in more mature markets and grow our position in newly emerging markets. There are numerous risks to the successful execution of our business plans. For a discussion of some of the risks and uncertainties that impact our business, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K. 2 Table of Contents Industry Background Information technology departments in businesses and government offices face an expanding set of problems with storing their data. Digitization has become nearly universal, with a variety of information now relying on digital format as its primary form. This phenomenon applies to business-critical records of all kinds, including documents, images and communications, as well as to the actual products of entire industries, including rich media production services and television broadcasting. Intensifying the impact of this data wave is the rise of broadband communications and the ease of copying and moving records among users and sites. With a single mouse click, multiple copies of the same file—a picture, a presentation, a video clip, a spreadsheet—are sent to servers around the world, and copied over and over again. The net effect is a rapid increase in the total amount of data being stored and managed, an increase that may outpace any change in fundamental business activity. The data storage requirements of virtually every company increase year after year, whether or not the business is growing. Adding to the complexity of the data-management task are regulatory and economic issues. Virtually every company has regulatory requirements from different organizations that recognize the critical value of this data and that mandate both its long-term preservation and rapid access. Different industries are affected by different regulations, and the interpretation of requirements is not always straightforward; however, organizations of all types recognize the significance of storing and protecting their data over time. At the same time, IT organizations find themselves under pressure to increase operational efficiencies by doing more with the same, or reduced, staff levels. IT departments have come to expect that every year they will face the problem of how to manage more data, in more places. This situation makes it very difficult for many companies to continue to operate in the ways they had in the past, and it drives a rapidly increasing need for value-add solutions aimed to solve storage problems. Part of the solution can be found in new technologies associated with storage and with information management: • Flexible, lower cost, open system client-server platforms using UNIX, Linux and Windows operating systems are replacing mainframe environments. • Storage media, both fixed and removable, have been developed to provide more capacity and different kinds of capacity at lower cost. • Data transmission transports, including Fibre Channel and Internet Protocol, have been applied to storage solutions. • New networking techniques designed specifically for storage have developed, including Storage Area Networks (“SAN”) and Network Attached Storage (“NAS”). Each of these technologies, however, can also have the effect of creating additional adoption and integration tasks for IT departments under pressure to keep up with the growth of data and the requirements to manage it. Technologies alone, especially in their early phases, cannot provide the operating leverage that is achieved with a comprehensive data management solution. Products As a leading global specialist in backup, recovery and archive, we provide a comprehensive range of disk, tape and software solutions supported by an outstanding sales and service organization. Our solutions are all designed to provide IT departments in a wide variety of organizations with innovative and dependable tools for protecting, retaining and accessing their digital assets. We sell our products via our branded channels and through OEMs such as Dell, Inc. (“Dell”), Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”), International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”) and Sun Microsystems, Inc. (“Sun”). We divide our products into three broad categories, (1) tape automation systems, (2) data management software and disk-based backup systems and (3) devices and media. The systems category is comprised of tape automation products, disk-based backup systems and data management software. The devices and media category includes removable disk drives, standalone tape drives and media products. Tape Automation Systems According to IDC’s Worldwide Branded Tape 2006 Vendor Analysis report, we are the world’s largest supplier of automated tape systems, in terms of both revenue and unit shipments. Our tape automation portfolio includes autoloaders and entry-level, midrange and enterprise libraries. These products integrate tape drives into a system with automation technology, advanced connectivity and sophisticated management tools. Today, the preferred tape drive format for automation environments is LTO. 3 Table of Contents Our tape libraries range in size from easy-to-use desk-top units suitable for a small office to storage networking solutions that can protect the largest data center. Our SuperLoader™ 3 autoloader has one tape drive and up to 16 cartridges, whereas our large enterprise-class libraries can hold up to hundreds of drives and thousands of cartridges. Our lead midrange and enterprise libraries—the Scalar® i500TM and Scalar i2000TM, respectively—leverage a common, integrated software management approach called iLayerTM, which provides monitoring, alerts and diagnostics, thereby reducing service calls, shortening issue resolution time and reducing the time users spend managing backup. The Scalar i500 and Scalar i2000 can also be easily scaled, allowing users to expand the capacity of their libraries as their data grows. In addition, these products include connectivity options to improve backup performance and reliability in SAN environments. Disk-Based Backup Systems We launched one of the first open systems virtual tape library (“VTL”) products and the first VTL to provide disk-to-tape migration in open systems environments. Today, we offer a broad range of disk solutions for backup and recovery. Our newest solutions, which we began shipping in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, are our DXi-Series disk-based backup appliances featuring data de-duplication and replication technologies: the DXi3500 and DXi5500. Data de-duplication is an enabling technology that is fundamentally changing the economics of disk storage and data transmission. By greatly increasing effective disk capacity, data de-duplication enables users to retain backup data on fast recovery disk much longer than possible with conventional disk and significantly reduces the bandwidth needed to move data between sites. We hold a key patent in one of the most common methods of data de-duplication, known as variable-length data de-duplication. The DXi-Series appliances use this patented data de-duplication technology to expand the amount of backup data users can retain on redundant array independent disk (“RAID”) systems by 10 to 50 times. The result is a cost-effective means for IT departments to store backup data on disk for months instead of days, providing high speed restores, increasing available data recovery points and reducing media management. For disaster recovery in distributed environments, the DXi-Series appliances also make wide area network (“WAN”) replication practical because of the greatly reduced bandwidth required with data de-duplication. DXi-Series solutions are integrated appliances that are easy to install and use with all leading backup applications. DXi-Series solutions provide leading performance and flexible, easy-to-use interface options including NAS, VTL or mixed presentations, along with Fibre Channel or iSCSI connectivity. Our new DXi-Series appliance family provides a combination of enhanced enterprise performance and advanced functionality. In addition to data de-duplication, the core set of advanced features of the DXi-Series includes a high performance embedded file system, support for high speed data compression, asynchronous replication and built-in monitoring and diagnostic tools. Our DXi-Series products also offer an extensible foundation for future intelligent backup and archive solutions that will improve data protection for a broad range of customer environments, from remote offices to large enterprise data centers. In addition to the DXi-Series appliances, we also provide VTL systems for midrange enterprises, our DX3000 and DX5000 products, and high-performance, highly-scalable VTLs for enterprise environments with our DX30, DX100 and Pathlight VX products. These VTLs emulate tape libraries to allow them to more easily back up and restore data than conventional disk systems without requiring users to change backup policies or procedures. Data Management Software Our data management software helps businesses with large-scale data needs benefit from workflow efficiencies, storage consolidation and archive management. Designed for open system computing environments, our data management software products allow multiple applications to rapidly access a single data set, increasing productivity and maximizing storage utilization. They also transparently move data based on business value, reducing storage costs while providing embedded data protection. For more than six years, organizations within rich media production and broadcast, the federal government and science and engineering have utilized our data management software to derive more value from their data while controlling costs. Many of these customers now rely on our software as a key technology. Designed for data-intensive SAN environments, our flagship software solution is StorNext®, data management software that reduces the time and total cost of managing data for end users with large data sets and challenging distributed environments. StorNext provides high-performance shared access to data across different operating systems and storage platforms, and based on user-defined policies, it automatically copies and migrates data between different tiers of storage. The result is a scalable, high-performance data management solution that is designed to optimize the use of SAN storage while ensuring the long-term safety and recoverability of data. Devices and Media Our device and media products include removable disk devices as well as a broad family of tape drives and media representing all major tape technology formats including LTO, DLT, DAT/DDS and Travan. We sell performance line and value line tape drive devices to meet the varied needs of our customers. 4 Table of Contents Our GoVault drive is a removable and ruggedized disk-based backup device which combines attributes of disk and tape. GoVault utilizes a server-embedded dock with removable disk cartridges that can be stored in remote locations for data retention and disaster recovery. GoVault is designed to offer small businesses an alternative to other existing data protection technologies. Since acquiring Certance Holdings (“Certance”) in early 2005, we have offered tape drives and media based on the LTO format, which has become the leading technology in the midrange and open systems enterprise market segment. In fiscal 2007, we launched the LTO-3 HH, a half-height drive that is a cost-effective device that balances price with increased capacity and performance. Our newest generation performance line DLT tape drive is the DLT-S4, and the latest value line DLT tape drive is the DLT-V4. DLT-S4 provides among the industry’s highest tape capacity and the lowest media cost per gigabyte (“GB”) of storage available today. DLT-V4 offers enterprise-class features with the lowest media cost per GB in its class. In addition, both DLT-S4 and DLT-V4 feature our DLTSage™ suite of intelligent data protection tools that include DLTSage WORM (Write Once, Read Many) and DLTSage Tape Security. Our DAT/DDS tape drives are intended to provide backup, recovery and archive for small businesses, while our Travan drives offer affordable data protection for workstations and entry-level servers. We also sell a full range of storage media offerings to complement each tape drive technology and satisfy a variety of specific media requirements. Our media includes DLTtape®, LTO Ultrium™, DAT, DDS and Travan data cartridges. Our media is compatible with our drives, autoloaders and libraries as well as other industry products. For more information about our products, please visit our website at www.quantum.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Global Services and Warranty Our global services strategy is an integral component of our total customer solution. Service is typically a significant purchase factor for customers considering data management and storage solutions, and our ability to provide comprehensive service and support can provide us with a noteworthy competitive advantage. In addition, we believe that our ability to retain long-term customer relationships and secure repeat business is frequently tied directly to our service capabilities and performance. Through the combined use of new technology and traditional service components, we believe we can most effectively meet the dynamic support needs of our customers. StorageCareTM is our comprehensive suite of services designed to best meet our customers’ requirements for product support. StorageCare services include StorageCareGuardianTM, our remote service feature; Customer Service Center, our web support capability; and Online Service Request, an enhanced online service request tool that includes access to an extensive knowledge base, allowing customers to perform basic troubleshooting themselves. We continue to provide conventional support capabilities such as technical support and on-site services. Our extensive use of technology and innovative, built-in product intelligence allows us to scale our global services operations to meet the needs of our expanding installed base. We are currently able to provide service to customers in 180 countries, supported by 24-hour, multi-language technical support centers located in North America, Europe and Asia. We provide our customers with warranty coverage on our products. Customers with high availability requirements may also purchase additional service to extend the warranty period, obtain faster response times, or both on our tape automation and disk-based backup systems. We offer this additional support coverage at a variety of response levels up to 24-hours a day, seven-days-a-week, 365-days-a-year, for customers with stringent high-availability needs. Our services and other revenue category includes sales of hardware service contracts as well as repair, installation and professional services. We generally warrant our products against defects for periods ranging from three to 36 months from the date of sale and provide warranty service on tape drives on a return-to-factory basis. We provide automation systems warranty service from our facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado and Böehmenkirch, Germany. Jabil Global Service provides screen and repair services in Reynosa, Mexico for North America customers and in Szombathely, Hungary for Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) customers. Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (“BEI”) also provides automation systems warranty service in Redmond, Washington and Huntsville, Alabama. In addition, we utilize various other third party service providers throughout the world to perform tape drive and automation systems services for us in order to reach additional geographic areas and industries in a quality and cost-effective manner. 5 Table of Contents Research and Development Our research and development teams have developed multiple generations of Quantum storage products, platforms and software. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on solving crucial issues in storage and data protection. These development efforts are focused on major investments in new disk-based backup devices, appliances and data protection software as well as expansion of our legacy tape drives and tape automation systems. In fiscal 2007, we developed new technology to deliver an enhanced data drive utilizing the material exchange format (MXF) format for rich media and broadcast applications as well as continued enhancements to our new disk-based storage device, the DXi-series products. Our tape device investments include new technology involving data encryption and encryption key management to meet growing data security needs. Time and investment requirements for new product development tend to be significant in terms of hardware engineering, firmware engineering and the development of tooling for manufacturing. Wherever feasible, we work toward developing software and hardware components that can be used across multiple platforms such as our DXi Series where the hardware and software are common for all customer segments. We have developed a new common architecture that incorporates the StorNext file system with intelligent software platforms such as de-duplication software that we license to customers. Going forward, we expect to focus on LTO technology to enhance an already solid position in this growing market. We also continue to invest in our enterprise, midrange and entry-level automation platforms resulting in innovative and differentiating technology, features and solutions. We have suspended further development in the DLT and SDLT technologies as we focus our investments in LTO technology as well as new technology for growing market segments of the data storage market. Our disk-based appliances and software development efforts target three major market segments of the data storage market that have led to a shift in the approach and techniques to data protection that are solving the need for ever-increasing data storage products: • Capacity Optimized Storage (COS) in two areas: • Capacity Optimized Virtual Tape Library (COVTL) and • Other Capacity Optimized Storage (OCOS); • Continuous Data Technologies (CDT) and • WideArea Data Services (WDS) These products will include sophisticated intellectual property such as de-duplication, many to many (N-N) replication, clustered file system and other solutions. It is our strategy to expand our investment in the rapidly growing market segments that are also producing successful start-up companies. We are focusing our research and development investments in the following main areas: Capacity Optimized Storage Market The COS market has been growing at an exponential pace and has been the primary replacement chosen for prior tape based solutions. Within the COS market, COVTL solutions have been growing at a more rapid pace than OCOS solutions. Our research and development efforts are targeted to provide us with more solutions within these rapidly growing markets. Continuous Data Technologies Market The CDT market supports granular data capture, allowing administrators to create unlimited numbers of any point-in-time (“APIT”) images, which is changing the copy creation environment in enterprises. This technology addresses entire data protection landscapes including backup, recovery, replication, testing, development, archiving, migrations and disaster recovery. It is supplanting nearly all forms of snapshot or other APIT approaches because of improved efficiency and flexibility. Products integrating this technology are becoming mainstream for databases, email and companies’ mission-critical electronic information which require the highest high availability (HA) and service level agreements (SLAs). WideArea Data Services Market This rapidly growing market encompasses transition control protocol (TCP) optimization, data reduction for replication, email caching and a range of application protocol optimizations which complement COS products and technologies. WAD provides a true IT path to server-less, lean network-efficient branch offices, solving backup and restore problems in remote office, business office (ROBO) settings. WAD products centralize distributed infrastructure such as file and mail servers, NAS and remote office backup systems without affecting remote users. The technology enables world-wide remote file sharing and remote WAN backup and replication that meet backup windows that were previously unachievable. Our efforts depend on the integration of multiple engineering disciplines to generate products that competitively meet or exceed market needs in a timely fashion. Our new product development is frequently stimulated by the availability of an enhanced or more cost-effective storage capacity device, the emergence of new storage protocols and evolving end user requirements as noted above. We are constantly evaluating alternative technologies that can be incorporated into our products and provide us a competitive advantage. We identify and define new products based on their ability to meet a perceived market need in a rapidly evolving field. Our sales, marketing, product development, engineering, supply chain and global services organizations all contribute to the process of identifying and implementing advances in technology. 6 Table of Contents We maintain research and development facilities in Boulder, Colorado Springs and Englewood, Colorado; Costa Mesa, Santa Maria, Irvine and San Jose, California; Burnsville, Minnesota; Richardson, Texas and Adelaide, Australia as of March 31, 2007. While we remain committed to a distributed research and development model, we anticipate executing on selected consolidation opportunities which we expect to yield benefits in both innovation and efficiency in certain product development areas. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing employees are focused exclusively on backup, recovery and archive solutions for our customers. The expertise of our sales and marketing professionals enables us to provide tailored advice and targeted solutions for our end-user customers. Furthermore, since we offer many different ways of protecting data involving disk, tape and software, our recommendations can be broad and are based on what serves the customer best. We rely on an array of channel partners to reach end user customers, which range in size from small businesses to government agencies and large, multinational corporations. Our products are sold under both the Quantum brand name and the names of various OEM customers. Our sales operations are based in Redmond, Washington; San Jose and Irvine, California; Munich; Paris; Singapore and Shanghai, with regional and field offices throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Quantum Branded Sales Channels For Quantum-branded products, we utilize VARs, distributors and direct marketing resellers. We also maintain a reseller agreement with EMC Corporation (“EMC”), through which EMC sells Quantum-branded tape libraries to its customer base and through its own network of resellers. Additionally, we sell directly to a select number of large corporate entities and governmental agencies. We believe international markets represent an attractive growth opportunity, particularly for our branded business and continue to expand the scope of our international sales efforts by recruiting talented sales professionals and entering into additional international distributor and reseller relationships. In January 2007, we implemented a new, integrated Quantum Alliance™ Reseller Program for the Americas. The program allows our channel partners the option to purchase products directly or through distribution and access to a more comprehensive product line. A key element of Quantum Alliance is an online sales assistance tool that simplifies the process of product selection and ordering which enables fast system selection, configuration and ordering of even the most sophisticated systems. The program is designed to provide additional benefits to our partners as they grow their business with us. OEM Relationships We sell our products to several OEM customers who generally resell our products under their own brand name and typically assume responsibility for product sales, end user service and support. These OEM relationships enable us to reach end users not served by our branded distribution channels or our direct sales force. They also allow us to sell to select geographic or vertical markets where specific OEMs have exceptional strength. We maintain ongoing discussions with numerous OEMs, including leading systems suppliers, regarding opportunities for our products. We primarily sell our entry-level products through our hardware OEMs. Fulfillment models vary, but generally require maintaining an inventory of OEM product in third party logistics centers near the OEM’s manufacturing or distribution facility. In these relationships, we generally maintain title to products until those products leave the third party logistics location. Service support differs widely from one OEM to another. We provide support ranging from repair and replacement to 24-hour fast exchange to on-site service support for our mid-range and enterprise-class products. Customers Customers for our systems products, including tape automation and disk-based backup systems and data management software, include Bell Microproducts, Inc., Dell, EMC, HP, IBM and a variety of other resellers, distributors and OEMs to reach end user customers from small businesses to government agencies and large, multinational corporations. Software OEMs include Cray, Inc., HP and Grass Valley Group, Inc. Our devices and media have achieved broad market acceptance in the mid-range network server market with leading computer equipment manufacturers such as Dell, HP and Sun. Because the leading computer equipment manufacturers have a dominant share of the computer systems market into which our products are incorporated, our sales are concentrated with several key customers. Greater emphasis on our branded business has reduced the portion of sales to our top five customers in fiscal 2007 and distributed our revenues across a larger number of customers. Our top five customers in fiscal 2007 represented 42% of revenue, compared to 49% of revenue in fiscal 2006 and 52% of revenue in fiscal 2005. Sales to Dell increased to 20% of revenue in fiscal 2007, compared to 18% of revenue in fiscal 2006 and 17% of revenue in fiscal 2005. Sales to HP decreased to 9% of revenue in fiscal 2007, compared to 18% of revenue in fiscal 2006 and 22% of revenue in fiscal 2005. These sales concentrations do not include revenues from sales of our media that were sold directly to our top five customers by our licensees, for which we earn royalty revenue, or revenues from sales of tape libraries sold to our top five customers by our other OEM tape drive customers. We anticipate further expansion of our customer base through our Quantum Alliance Reseller Program and implementing similar channel programs in EMEA and Asia, which would likely distribute our product revenues across a larger number of customers. 7 Table of Contents Strategic Licensing Partners Multiple recording tape media manufacturing companies are qualified and licensed to manufacture, use, offer for sale and sell one or more DLTtape and LTO Ultrium media products. License agreements with these companies allow them to independently sell tape media cartridges for which we receive royalty payments. These strategic license agreements expand the market for DLTtape and LTO Ultrium media products and provide customers with multiple channels for obtaining tape media cartridges. We may enter into licensing agreements with respect to our data de-duplication technology, patents and similar intellectual property which also provides licensing revenues. In fiscal 2007, we licensed one of our patents in a cross-license agreement. In the near term we anticipate licensing to select licensing partners, then further expanding the licensing partner program based on market demand. Competition With the acquisition and integration of ADIC, we have significantly strengthened our position as a leading independent supplier of backup, recovery and archive solutions. However, all the markets in which we participate continue to be highly competitive, and in some cases, our competitors in one area are customers or suppliers in another. Several of our competitors have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. In the tape automation market, we primarily compete for midrange and enterprise reseller and end user business with IBM and Sun as well as HP through its OEM relationship with other tape automation suppliers. Competitors for entry-level and OEM tape automation business include BDT Products Inc. and several others that supply or manufacture similar products. In addition, disk-based backup products have emerged as a competitive alternative to tape products and solutions. Our disk-based backup solutions compete with products sold by EMC, HP, IBM, Network Appliance, Inc. and Sun. A number of our competitors also license technology from competing start-up companies such as FalconStor Software, Inc. and Sepaton, Inc. There are also other start-up companies with which we compete directly such as Data Domain, Inc. Our StorNext software products face competition from Cray, IBM, Isilon Systems, Inc., Silicon Graphics, Inc. and Sun. At the storage device level, our main competitors in the market for performance tape drives are HP and IBM. Both companies develop and sell their own LTO tape drives, which compete with our DLT-S and LTO offerings. Our value line tape drives, Travan, DAT/DDS and DLT-V, largely compete with those from HP and Tandberg Data. We also face competition from disk-based alternatives, including removable disk drives at the low-end of the market. Although we have our own removable disk drive in GoVault, several other companies sell removable disk drives, such as Imation Corporation, Iomega Corporation and ProStor Systems, Inc. For a discussion of risks associated with competing technologies, see Part 1, Item 1A, Risk Factors, “We derive almost all of our revenue from products incorporating tape technology. If competition from alternative storage technologies continues or increases, our business, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely harmed.” Manufacturing We utilize contract manufacturers to produce certain of our products and manufacture others in our own facilities. We manufacture certain of our tape automation systems, all of our disk-based backup systems and complete final configuration for specified products in our Colorado Springs and Englewood, Colorado facilities. In fiscal 2007 and 2006, our manufacturing facilities also included our Costa Mesa, California location. Some of our tape automation systems and spare parts for use by our OEM customers are produced by our Penang, Malaysia facility and some by Mitsumi via a manufacturing partner relationship with Fotronics in Singapore. As a result of our acquisition of ADIC in August 2006, we acquired a tape automation system and disk-based back up manufacturing facility in Englewood, Colorado and a tape automation system manufacturing relationship with BEI in Huntsville, Alabama and Redmond, Washington. We produce most of our tape drives and head assemblies for those drives in our Penang, Malaysia facility. Some of the head assemblies for our DLT drives are still produced by Lafe in China, and some of our drives are produced by PSEC in Japan and Indonesia and Mitsumi in the Philippines. The head assemblies for certain PSEC drives are produced in our Penang facility, while others are manufactured by Lafe in China. Our tape media cartridges are manufactured by third parties. Although we have a small number of contract manufacturers, each manufacturer produces different products. As a result, we have a single source of supply for each product, except for some of our tape media cartridges. In addition, certain components and subassemblies included in our products are obtained from single source suppliers or a limited group of suppliers. Most of these suppliers and our contract manufacturers are located outside the U.S. 8 Table of Contents We continue to evaluate our manufacturing operations strategy for efficient, cost-effective and quality manufacturing solutions, including our U.S., Asian and European manufacturing and configuration requirements. Implementing our manufacturing operations strategy, we have started consolidating our U.S. manufacturing and final configuration activity into our Colorado Springs, Colorado facility. We also continue strategic sourcing of certain tape automation systems from BEI. In fiscal 2008, we expect to continue consolidating our in-house manufacturing within the U.S. and continue to evaluate our Asian and European manufacturing operations. Backlog We manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand. We also place inventory in strategic locations in order to enable certain key customers to obtain products on demand. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. Product orders are confirmed and, in most cases, shipped to customers within one week. More complex systems and product configurations often have longer lead times and may include on-site integration and customer acceptance. Since we fill the majority of our orders as they are received, we do not believe our backlog levels are a meaningful indicator of future revenues or material to an understanding of our business. Information Technology and Infrastructure We are focused on continuous improvement of our internal business systems and global information technology infrastructure. With our acquisitions of Certance and ADIC over the past two years, we continue to integrate and improve our key business systems to bring the consolidated company onto a single platform designed to provide more streamlined and scalable processes and support of our global functions. We collaborate with several key business partners to integrate business-to-business communication platforms into our technology infrastructure that are designed to increase the efficiency of critical transactional processes. Technology We develop and protect our technology and know-how, principally in the field of data storage. We presently hold 449 U.S. patents and have 151 pending U.S. patent applications. In general, these patents have a 20-year term from the first effective filing date for each patent. We also hold a number of foreign patents and patent applications for certain of our products and technologies. Although we believe that our patents and applications have significant value, rapidly changing computer industry technology means that our future success will also depend heavily on the technical competence and creative skills of our employees. From time to time, third parties have asserted that the manufacture and sale of our products and services have infringed on their patents. We conduct ongoing investigations into the assertions and presently believe that either licenses are not required or that any licenses ultimately determined to be required could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. However, we cannot provide assurance that such licenses are presently obtainable, or if later determined to be required, could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We have signed a patent cross-licensing agreement with IBM and have agreed to a time-limited, mutual patent, non-assertion agreement with Maxtor covering certain technologies and patents of each party. In fiscal 2006, we entered into a patent cross license agreement with Sun where each party received a license to certain of the other party’s patents on a nonexclusive, worldwide basis. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we signed a patent cross-license agreement with Data Domain covering data de-duplication and other non-tape storage technologies. We may enter into patent cross-licensing agreements with other third parties in the future as part of our normal business activities. These agreements, when and if entered into, would enable us to use certain patents owned by these third parties and to enable these third parties to use certain patents that we own. Environmental Compliance We are subject to federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. During 2004, the European Union finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which regulates the collection, recovery and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) directive, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium and halogenated flame-retardants. During 2005 and 2006, member nations undertook legislation for the application of WEEE and RoHS within their borders. Most member countries have finalized their laws as of the end of 2006, and many countries that have finalized laws are just beginning to implement their processes. To comply with the WEEE directive, we are responsible for financing the collection, treatment, disposal and recycling of past and future covered products within those countries in which we operate. To comply with the RoHS directive, we identified alternatives for certain components used in our products and changed certain aspects of our product designs. Future years may bring additional implementation requirements, such as the expiration of current exemptions, and we may need to substantially alter product designs and locate alternate suppliers for critical components used in those products. We continue to evaluate the potential impact that compliance with WEEE and RoHS may have on our results of operations and financial and competitive position. 9 Table of Contents Employees We had approximately 2,900 employees worldwide as of March 31, 2007. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at www.quantum.com when such reports are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Form 10-K. New York Stock Exchange Certification We submitted the certification of our Chief Executive Officer required by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listing Standards, Section 303A.12(a), relating to Quantum’s compliance with the NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards, to the NYSE on September 27, 2006 with no qualifications. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF QUANTUM CORPORATION Set forth below are the names, ages (as of June 1, 2007), positions and offices held by, and a brief account of the business experience of each executive officer of Quantum. Name Age Position with Quantum Barbara L. Barrett 58 Vice President, Human Resources Richard E. Belluzzo 53 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William C. Britts 48 Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Service Stephen P. Dalton 48 Senior Vice President, Tiered Storage Systems Engineering Jon W. Gacek 45 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Shawn D. Hall 38 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Ms. Barrett joined Quantum in 1999 and has been Vice President of Human Resources since July 2003. Prior to assuming her current role, Ms. Barrett held other human resources management positions within the Company, most recently Vice President, Human Resources of the DLTtape business. Before joining Quantum, Ms. Barrett held leadership positions at companies in the telecommunications and utilities industries in a variety of human resource functions, including compensation, training, consulting and organizational development. Mr. Belluzzo has been Chief Executive Officer since joining the Company in September 2002 and Chairman of the Board since July 2003. Before joining Quantum, from September 1999 to May 2002, Mr. Belluzzo held senior management positions with Microsoft Corp., most recently as President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to Microsoft, from January 1998 to September 1999, Mr. Belluzzo was Chief Executive Officer of Silicon Graphics Inc. Before his tenure at Silicon Graphics, from 1975 to January 1998, Mr. Belluzzo was with Hewlett-Packard, most recently as Executive Vice President of the computer organization. Currently Mr. Belluzzo is a member of the board of directors of PMC-Sierra, as well as JDS Uniphase, and is a member of the board of trustees for Golden Gate University. Mr. Britts became Executive Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Service in August 2006, upon Quantum’s acquisition of ADIC. Before joining Quantum, Mr. Britts was the Co-Executive Vice President of Products, Sales and Service at ADIC. In his 12 years at ADIC, he held numerous leadership positions, including Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing, Vice President of Sales and Marketing and Director of Marketing. Prior to ADIC, Mr. Britts held a number of marketing and sales positions at Raychem Corp. and its subsidiary, Elo TouchSystems. Mr. Dalton became Senior Vice President of Engineering for Quantum’s Tiered Storage Systems in October 2006. Prior to joining Quantum, Mr. Dalton was General Manager, SAN Business Unit, of Broadcom Corporation’s enterprise storage business where he started after the acquisition of Gadzoox Networks, Inc. in which he was President and CEO. He previously served as General Manager for Americas for Force Computers, Inc. (“Force”). Prior to Force, Mr. Dalton served in the Office of the President and Vice President Development at Auspex Systems, Inc. and was the President and Chief Operating Officer of Streamlogic Corporation after an acquisition of FWB Software where he was the Vice President of Engineering. 10 Table of Contents Mr. Gacek joined Quantum as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2006, upon Quantum’s acquisition of ADIC. Previously, he served as the Chief Financial Officer at ADIC from 1999 to 2006 and also led Operations during his last two years there. Prior to ADIC, Mr. Gacek was an audit partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and led the Technology Practice in the firm’s Seattle office. While at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, he assisted several private equity investment firms with a number of mergers, acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and other transactions. Mr. Gacek serves on the board of directors for Loud Technologies, Inc. and HouseValues, Inc. Mr. Hall joined Quantum in 1999 as Corporate Counsel and assumed the role of Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2001. Prior to Quantum, Mr. Hall worked at the law firms of Skadden, Arps and Willkie Farr & Gallagher, where he practiced in the areas of mergers and acquisitions and corporate finance, representing numerous public and private technology companies. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THE READER SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING QUANTUM. ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES NOT PRESENTLY KNOWN TO US OR THAT ARE CURRENTLY DEEMED IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS “FORWARD-LOOKING” STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. PLEASE SEE PAGE 3 OF THIS REPORT FOR ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION OF THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. A large percentage of our sales come from a few customers, and these customers have no minimum or long-term purchase commitments. The loss of, or a significant reduction in demand from, one or more key customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our sales have been and continue to be concentrated among a few customers. Sales to our top five customers in fiscal 2007 represented 42% of total revenue. This sales concentration does not include revenues from sales of our media that our licensees sold to our top five customers, for which we earn royalty revenue. Furthermore, customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum product volume and our relationships with our customers are terminable at will. In fiscal 2007, sales to Dell contributed approximately 20% of our revenue. If we experience a significant decline in revenue from Dell, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, many of our tape products are primarily incorporated into larger storage systems or solutions that are marketed and sold to end-users by our large OEM customers. Because of this, we have limited market access to these end-users, limiting our ability to reach and influence their purchasing decisions. These market conditions further our reliance on these large OEM customers. Thus if they were to significantly reduce, cancel or delay their orders with us, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In connection with the acquisition of ADIC, we drew on our $500 million credit facility with Key Bank, substantially increasing our debt service obligations and constraining our ability to operate our business. Unless we are able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet these debt obligations, our business financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. In connection with our acquisition of ADIC, we borrowed $496.5 million under our credit facility with KeyBank, adding a significant amount of indebtedness and interest expense to our obligations. As of March 31, 2007, the total amount outstanding under the credit facility was $362.5 million. Our level of indebtedness presents significant risks to investors, both in terms of the constraints that it places on our ability to operate our business and because of the possibility that we may not generate sufficient cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness as it becomes due. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, such as: • Making it more difficult or impossible for us to make payments on our convertible subordinated notes or any other indebtedness or obligations; • Requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other cash requirements; • Increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in, the electronics manufacturing industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and • Limiting our ability to incur additional debt on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, there is a risk that we may not be able to repay our debt obligations as they become due. We have incurred significant losses since 2001. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations (and fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other general corporate needs) will depend upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service these debt obligations, or that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs. Unless we are able to improve our cash flows from operations we may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, which would require that we reduce or delay capital expenditures and/or sell assets, thereby affecting our ability to remain competitive and materially and adversely affecting our business. Such a failure to repay our debt obligations when due would also result in our default under our loan agreements, which would give our lenders the right to seize all of our assets. Any such inability to meet our debt obligations would therefore have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our credit agreement contains various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit agreement contains numerous restrictive covenants that require us to comply with and maintain certain financial tests and ratios, thereby restricting our ability to: • Incur debt; • Incur liens; • Redeem or prepay subordinated debt; • Make acquisitions of businesses or entities or sell certain assets; • Make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; • Make capital expenditures beyond a certain threshold; • Engage in transactions with affiliates; • Pay dividends or engage in stock repurchases; and • Enter into certain restrictive agreements. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Even if we are able to comply with all covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. In addition, we may seek to refinance certain of our indebtedness in the future. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our credit agreement is secured by a pledge of all of our assets. If we were to default under our credit agreement and were unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, the lenders would have a right to foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement. Any such action on the part of the lenders against us could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In prior year periods, we violated certain financial covenants under our credit agreement and received waivers or amendments for such violations. If in the future we violate financial covenants, it could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and liquidity. If our operating results do not improve in the future and we violate any financial or reporting covenant in our credit agreement and receive a notice of default letter from our bank group, our credit line could become unavailable, and any amounts outstanding could become immediately due and payable. Without the availability of the credit agreement, we would have to rely on operating cash flows and debt or equity arrangements other than the credit agreement, if such alternative funding arrangements are available to us at all, in order to maintain sufficient liquidity. If we were not able to obtain sufficient cash from our operations or from these alternative funding sources under such circumstances, our operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially and adversely affected. We derive almost all of our revenue from products incorporating tape technology. If competition from alternative storage technologies continues or increases, our business, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely harmed. We derive almost all of our revenue from products that incorporate some form of tape technology and we expect to continue to derive a substantial majority of our revenue from these products for the foreseeable future. As a result, our future operating results depend on the continued market acceptance of products employing tape drive technology. Our tape products, including tape drives and automation systems, are increasingly challenged by products using hard disk drive technology, such as Virtual Tape Libraries (VTL), standard disk arrays and Network Attached Storage (NAS). Hard disk drives have experienced a trend toward lower prices while capacity and performance have increased. If disk-based backup products gain comparable or superior market acceptance, or their costs decline far more rapidly than tape drive and media costs, the competition resulting from these products would increase as customers migrate toward them. We are working to address this risk through our own targeted investment in disk-based products and other alternative technologies, but if we are not successful in our efforts, our business, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Competition has increased, and may increasingly intensify, in the tape drive and tape automation markets as a result of competitors introducing products based on new technology standards, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with companies that develop, manufacture, market and sell tape drive and tape automation products. The principal competitors for our tape drive products include Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Sony. These competitors are aggressively trying to advance and develop new technologies and products to compete against our technologies and products. For instance, LTO technology, which was developed by Certance, Hewlett-Packard and IBM, targets the high-capacity data backup market and competes directly with our products based on Super DLTtape™ technology. Hewlett-Packard and IBM thus compete not only with our Super DLTtape™ products but now compete with the LTO product offerings that we acquired through our acquisition of Certance. This competition has resulted in a trend, which is expected to continue, toward lower prices and lower margins earned on our DLTtape® and Super DLTtape™ drives and media. Additionally, over the last two years, our DLT and Super DLTtape™ drives have lost market share to LTO based products, and we cannot provide assurance that our tape technology based products will not continue to lose market share to LTO based products in the future. These factors, and additional factors, such as the possibility of industry consolidation, when combined with the current environment of intense competition, which has resulted in reduced shipments of our tape drive products, could result in a further reduction in our prices, volumes and margins, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our tape automation products compete with product offerings of Dell, EMC IBM and Sun, which offer tape automation systems incorporating DLTtape® and Super DLTtape™ technology as well as LTO technology. Increased competition has resulted in increased price competition. If this trend continues or worsens, if competition further intensifies, or if industry consolidation occurs, our sales and gross margins could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time we make acquisitions, such as the recent acquisition of ADIC. The failure to successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As a part of our business strategy, we have in the past and expect in the future to make acquisitions, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, such as the recent acquisition of ADIC. If we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions, it could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks that we may face in our efforts to integrate any recent or future acquisitions include, among others: • Failure to realize anticipated savings and benefits from the acquisition; • Difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees; • Potential incompatibility of business cultures; • Coordinating geographically separate organizations; • Diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • Coordinating infrastructure operations in a rapid and efficient manner; • The potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • Insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; • Costs and delays in implementing or integrating common systems and procedures; • Reduction or loss of customer orders due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; • Impairment of existing customer, supplier and strategic relationships of either company; • Insufficient cash flows from operations to fund the working capital and investment requirements; • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • The possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment, the original investment may become impaired, and/or we may incur losses from these investments; • Dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired company; • The assumption of risks of the acquired company that are difficult to quantify, such as litigation; • The cost associated with the acquisition; and • Assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated adverse events or circumstances. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our operating results depend on new product introductions, which may not be successful, in which case our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. To compete effectively, we must continually improve existing products and introduce new ones, such as our recently introduced DXi series products, PX500-Series libraries, the DLT S-4 and GoVault and enhanced Scalar i500 and Scalar i2000 products and next generation StorNext software. We have devoted and expect to continue to devote considerable management and financial resources to these efforts. We cannot provide assurance that: • We will introduce new products in the time frame we are forecasting; • We will not experience technical, quality, performance-related or other difficulties that could prevent or delay the introduction of, and market acceptance of, new products; • Our new products will achieve market acceptance and significant market share, or that the markets for these products will continue or grow as we have anticipated; • Our new products will be successfully or timely qualified with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications because a successful and timely customer qualification must occur before customers will place large product orders; or • We will achieve high volume production of these new products in a timely manner, if at all. If we are not successful in timely completion of our new product qualifications and then ramping sales to our key customers, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the quality of our products is not acceptable to our customers, this could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty and repair costs. We have taken considerable steps towards reducing our cost structure and may take further cost reduction actions. The steps we have taken and may take in the future may not reduce our cost structure to a level appropriate in relation to our future sales and therefore, these anticipated cost reductions may be insufficient to bring us back to profitability. In the last four years, we have recorded significant restructuring charges and made cash payments in order to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses to rationalize our operations following past acquisitions and in response to adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions. We may take future steps to further reduce our operating costs. These steps and additional future restructurings in response to rationalization of operations following future acquisitions, strategic decisions or adverse changes in our business and industry may require us to make cash payments that, if large enough, would materially and adversely affect our liquidity. We may be unable to reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses at a rate and to a level consistent with a future potential adverse sales environment, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our tape media and tape royalty business generates a relatively high gross margin rate, which significantly impacts the total company gross margin rate. If we were to experience a significant decline in the tape media or tape royalty gross margin rate, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Our tape royalty and media gross margin rates and revenues are dependent on many factors, including the following factors: • The pricing actions of other media suppliers; • The size of the installed base of tape drives that use our tape cartridges; • The performance of our strategic licensing partners, which sell our tape media cartridges; • The relative growth in units of our newer tape drive products, since the associated media cartridges typically sell at higher prices than the media cartridges associated with older tape drive products; • The relative mix of media purchased directly from us as compared to our licensees; • The media consumption habits and rates of end users; • The pattern of tape drive retirements; and • The level of channel inventories. Competition from other tape technologies has had a significant negative impact on our income from media as well as on our sales of tape drives. Similarly, competition among media suppliers has periodically resulted in intense, price-based competition for media sales, which also affects media income. If either of these competitive factors continues or intensifies, it would further erode tape drive unit sales, tape drive installed base, media units and media pricing. To the extent that our Quantum branded media revenue and media royalties depend upon media pricing and the quantity of media consumed by the installed base of our tape drives, reduced media prices, or a reduced installed tape drive base, would result in further reductions in our Quantum branded media and media royalty revenue and gross margin rates. This would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Third party intellectual property infringement claims could result in substantial liability and significant costs, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, third parties allege our infringement of and need for a license under their patented or other proprietary technology. While we currently believe the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to any such actions will not materially affect our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity, the ultimate outcome of any license discussion or litigation is uncertain. Adverse resolution of any third party infringement claim could subject us to substantial liabilities and require us to refrain from manufacturing and selling certain products. In addition, the costs incurred in intellectual property litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. As a result, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain products or technologies acquired or developed by us may include so-called “open source” software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge. Certain open source software licenses, however, require users of the open source software to license to others any software that is based on, incorporates or interacts with, the open source software under the terms of the open source license. Although we endeavor to comply fully with such requirements, third parties could claim that we are required to license larger portions of our software than we believe we are required to license under open source software licenses. If such claims were successful, they could adversely impact our competitive position and financial results by providing our competitors with access to sensitive information that may help them develop competitive products. In addition, our use of open source software may harm our business and subject us to intellectual property claims, litigation or proceedings in the future because: • Open source license terms may be ambiguous and may subject us to unanticipated obligations regarding our products, technologies and intellectual property; • Open source software generally cannot be protected under trade secret law; and • It may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the open source code and whether the open source software infringes, misappropriates or violates third party intellectual property or other rights. As a result of our global manufacturing and sales operations, we are subject to a variety of risks that are unique to businesses with international operations of a similar scope, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business: A significant portion of our manufacturing and sales operations and supply chain occurs in countries other than the United States. We also have sales outside the United States. In addition, a significant number of our products are manufactured in Malaysia. Similarly, one of the suppliers of recording heads for our products is located in China. Because of these operations, we are subject to a number of risks including: • Import and export duties and value-added taxes; • Import and export regulation changes that could erode our profit margins or restrict our exports; • Political risks and natural disasters, including earthquakes, especially in emerging or developing economies; • Potential restrictions on the transfer of funds between countries; • Natural disasters, including earthquakes, typhoons and tsunamis; • Inflexible employee contracts and employment laws that may make it difficult to terminate employees in some foreign countries in the event of business downturns; • Adverse movement of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar (the currency in which our results are reported); • Shortages in component parts and raw materials; and • The burden and cost of complying with foreign laws. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on indirect sales channels to market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of or deterioration in our relationship with one or more of our resellers or distributors could negatively affect our operating results. We sell the majority of our branded products to value-added resellers, or VARs, and to direct marketing resellers such as CDW Corporation, who in turn sell our products to end users, and to distributors such as Ingram Micro, Tech Data and others. We also have a growing relationship with EMC through which we make available our branded products that complement EMC’s product offerings. The success of these sales channels is hard to predict, particularly over time, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from them that assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Several of our resellers carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A reseller might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each reseller determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Certain of our contracts with our distributors contain “most favored nation” pricing provisions mandating that we offer our products to these customers at the lowest price offered to other similarly situated customers. In addition, sales of our enterprise-class libraries, and the revenue associated with the on-site service of those libraries, are somewhat concentrated in specific customers, including government agencies and government-related companies. Our operating results could be adversely affected by any number of factors including: • A change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a reseller’s willingness or ability to distribute our products; 16 Table of Contents • The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products; • The loss of one or more of such resellers; or • Any financial difficulties of such resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly, and past quarterly operating results should not be used to predict future performance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and could fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our past quarterly operating results should not be used to predict future performance. Quarterly operating results could be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • An inadequate supply of tape media cartridges; • Reduced demand from our OEM customers; • Customers canceling, reducing, deferring or rescheduling significant orders as a result of excess inventory levels, weak economic conditions or other factors; • Declines in network server demand; • Product ramp cycles; • Failure to complete shipments in the last month of a quarter during which a substantial portion of our products are typically shipped; or • Increased competition. If we fail to meet our projected quarterly results, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely harmed. If we do not successfully manage the changes that we have made and may continue to make to our infrastructure and management, our business could be disrupted, and that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Managing change is an important focus for us. Following the acquisitions of Certance and ADIC, one of our important initiatives involves combining and integrating the information technology infrastructures of the companies, including our enterprise resource planning systems, and adapting our business processes and software to the requirements of the new organization. We are also managing several significant initiatives involving our operations, including efforts to reduce the number of contract manufacturers and suppliers we use, the outsourcing of our repair capabilities and the related closing of our facility in Dundalk, Ireland. In addition, we continue to reduce headcount to streamline and consolidate our supporting functions as appropriate following past acquisitions and in response to market or competitive conditions. If we are unable to successfully manage the changes that we implement, and detect and address issues as they arise, it could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or if others use our proprietary technology without authorization, our competitive position may suffer. Our future success and ability to compete depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secrets laws and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We currently hold 449 United States patents and have 151 United States patent applications pending. However, we cannot provide assurance that patents will be issued with respect to pending or future patent applications that we have filed or plan to file or that our patents will be upheld as valid or will prevent the development of competitive products or that any actions we have taken will adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, potential customers, and others as required, in which we strictly limit access to, and distribution of, our software, and further limit the disclosure and use of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain or use our products or technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 17 Table of Contents Because we may order components from suppliers in advance of receipt of customer orders for our products which include these components, we could face a material inventory risk. Historically, we have relied primarily on third parties to manufacture our products. However, we have begun to manufacture more of our products ourselves and anticipate that we will continue to increase the proportion of our products that we manufacture ourselves. Managing such a build-up of our in-house manufacturing capabilities presents a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. For instance, as part of our component planning, we place orders with or pay certain suppliers for components in advance of receipt of customer orders. We occasionally enter into negotiated orders with vendors early in the manufacturing process of our storage products to ensure that we have sufficient components for our new products to meet anticipated customer demand. Because the design and manufacturing process for these components is complicated, it is possible that we could experience a design or manufacturing flaw that could delay or even prevent the production of the components for which we previously committed to pay. We also face the risk of ordering too many components, or conversely, not enough components, since supply orders are generally based on forecasts of customer orders rather than actual customer orders. In addition, in some cases, we make non-cancelable order commitments to our suppliers for work-in-progress, supplier’s finished goods, custom sub-assemblies, discontinued (end-of-life) components and Quantum-unique raw materials that are necessary to meet our lead times for finished goods. If we cannot change or be released from supply orders, we could incur costs from the purchase of unusable components, either due to a delay in the production of the components or other supplies or as a result of inaccurately predicting supply orders in advance of customer orders. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected as a result of these increased costs. Some of our manufacturing, and our service repair, is outsourced to third party contract manufacturers. If we cannot obtain our products and parts from these third parties in a cost effective and timely manner that meets our customers’ expectations, this could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Some of our tape drive and tape automation products are manufactured for us by contract manufactures. We face a number of risks as a result of this outsourced manufacturing, including, among others: • Sole source of product supply In each case, our contract manufacturer is our sole source of supply for the tape drive and/or tape automation products they manufacture for us. Because we are relying on one supplier, we are at greater risk of experiencing component shortages or other delays in customer deliveries that could result in customer dissatisfaction and lost sales, which could materially damage customer relationships and result in lost revenue. • Cost and purchase commitments We may not be able to control the costs we would be required to pay our contract manufacturers for the products they manufacture for us. They procure inventory to build our products based upon a forecast of customer demand that we provide. We would be responsible for the financial impact on the contract manufacturer of any reduction or product mix shift in the forecast relative to materials that they had already purchased under a prior forecast. Such a variance in forecasted demand could require us to pay them for finished goods in excess of current customer demand or for excess or obsolete inventory and generally incur higher costs. As a result, we could experience reduced gross margins and larger operating losses based on these purchase commitments. • Quality We will have limited control over the quality of products produced by our contract manufacturers. Therefore, the quality of the products may not be acceptable to our customers and could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue, and increased warranty costs. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not control licensee pricing or licensee sales of tape media cartridges. To the extent that our royalty revenue is dependent on the prices of cartridges sold by our licensees, should these licensees significantly lower prices on the media products that they sell, such reduced pricing would lower our royalty revenue, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We receive a royalty fee based on sales of our tape media cartridges by Fuji, Maxell, Imation and Sony. Under our license agreements with these companies, each of the licensees determines the pricing and number of units of tape media cartridges that it sells. To the extent that our royalty revenue is based on the prices of cartridges sold by our licensees, our royalty revenue will vary depending on the level of sales and prices set by the licensees. In addition, lower prices set by licensees could require us to lower our prices on direct sales of tape media cartridges, which would reduce our revenue and margins on these products. As a result, lower prices on our tape media cartridges would reduce media revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, and recent changes in accounting for equity compensation are adversely affecting earnings. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment (“SFAS No. 123R”), which we implemented at the beginning of fiscal 2007. We are required to recognize compensation expense in our statement of operations for the fair value of unvested employee stock options at the date of adoption and new stock options granted to our employees after the adoption date over the related vesting periods of the stock options. The requirement to expense stock options granted to employees reduces their attractiveness to Quantum because the expense associated with these grants typically results in future compensation charges. In addition, the expenses recorded may not accurately reflect the value of our stock options because the option pricing models used to estimate fair value were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options and are based on highly subjective assumptions, including the option’s expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Alternative compensation arrangements that can replace stock option programs may also negatively impact profitability. Stock options remain an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program following the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Our employees are critical to our ability to develop and design systems that advance our productivity and technology goals, increase our sales goals and provide support to customers. Accordingly, as a result of the requirement under SFAS No. 123R to recognize the fair value of stock options as compensation expense, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, our future results of operations will be adversely impacted. See also Note 4 “Stock Incentive Plans and Share-based Compensation” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our stock price could become more volatile if certain institutional investors were to increase or decrease the number of shares they own. In addition, there are other factors and events that could affect the trading prices of our common stock. Five institutional investors own approximately 48% of our common stock. If any or all of these investors were to decide to purchase additional shares or to sell some or all of the common shares they currently own, that may cause our stock price to be more volatile. For example, there have been instances in the past where a shareholder with a significant equity position begins selling shares, putting downward pressure on our stock price for the duration of their selling activity. In these situations, selling pressure outweighs buying demand and our stock price declined. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of other events and factors, such as: • General economic conditions; • Changes in interest rates; • Fluctuations in the stock market in general and market prices for high technology companies in particular; • Quarterly variations in our operating results; • New products, services, innovations and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; • Changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • Changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; and • Strategic acquisitions. Any of these events and factors may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Some of our production processes and materials are environmentally sensitive, and new environmental regulation could lead to increased costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemicals, gases and other hazardous substances used in our manufacturing processes, air emissions, waste discharges, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination, as well as requirements for the design of and materials used in our products. A recent directive in the European Union imposes a “take back” obligation on manufacturers for the financing of the collection, recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment. Additional European legislation has banned the use of some heavy metals including lead and some flame retardants in electronic components beginning in July 2006. We have implemented procedures to comply with this new legislation. However, this legislation may adversely affect our manufacturing costs or product sales by requiring us to acquire costly equipment or materials, or to incur other significant expenses in adapting our manufacturing processes or waste and emission disposal processes. Furthermore, environmental claims or our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, or the suspension of affected operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may be sued by our customers as a result of failures in our data storage products. We face potential liability for performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. In addition, we could potentially face claims for product liability from our customers if our products cause property damage or bodily injury. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. We must maintain appropriate levels of service inventories. If we have too little service inventory, we may experience increased levels of customer dissatisfaction. If we have too much service inventory, we may incur financial losses. We maintain levels of service inventories to satisfy future warranty obligations and also to earn service revenue to repair products for which the warranty has expired. We estimate the required amount of service inventories based on historical usage and forecasts of future warranty requirements, including estimates of failure rates and costs to repair, and out of warranty revenue. Given the significant levels of judgment inherently involved in the process, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain appropriate levels of service inventories to satisfy customer needs and to avoid financial losses from excess inventory charges. If we are unable to maintain appropriate levels of service inventories, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. Because we rely heavily on distributors and other resellers to market and sell our products, if one or more distributors were to experience a significant deterioration in its financial condition or its relationship with us, this could disrupt the distribution of our products and reduce our revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In certain product and geographic segments we heavily utilize distributors and value added resellers to perform the functions necessary to market and sell our products. To fulfill this role, the distributor must maintain an acceptable level of financial stability, creditworthiness and the ability to successfully manage business relationships with the customers it serves directly. Under our distributor agreements with these companies, each of the distributors determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to its customers. If the distributor is unable to perform in an acceptable manner, we may be required to reduce the amount of sales of our product to the distributor or terminate the relationship. We may also incur financial losses for product returns from distributors or for the failure or refusal of distributors to pay obligations owed to us. Either scenario could result in fewer of our products being available to the affected market segments, reduced levels of customer satisfaction and/or increased expenses, which could in turn have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If the future outcomes related to the estimates used in recording tax liabilities to various taxing authorities result in higher tax liabilities than estimated, then we would have to record tax charges, which could be material. We have provided amounts and recorded liabilities for probable and estimable tax adjustments that may be proposed by various taxing authorities in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. If events occur that indicate payments of these amounts will be less than estimated, then reversals of these liabilities would create tax benefits being recognized in the periods when we determine the liabilities have reduced. Conversely, if events occur which indicate that payments of these amounts will be greater than estimated, then tax charges and additional liabilities would be recorded. In particular, various foreign jurisdictions could challenge the characterization or transfer pricing of certain intercompany transactions. In the event of an unfavorable outcome of such challenge, there exists the possibility of a material tax charge and adverse impact on the results of operations in the period in which the matter is resolved or an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and estimable. Maxtor’s failure to perform under its agreements with Quantum could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may have contingent liabilities for some obligations assumed by Maxtor in connection with the disposition of the Hard Disk Drive group, including liabilities for taxes, real estate and litigation, and Maxtor’s failure to perform under these obligations could result in significant costs to us that could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In May 2006, Maxtor was acquired by Seagate, which assumed Maxtor’s defense and indemnification obligations. 20 Table of Contents The disposition of the Hard Disk Drive group may be determined not to be tax-free, which would result in us or our stockholders, or both, incurring a substantial tax liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Maxtor and Quantum have agreed not to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or any state tax authority confirming that the structure of the combination of Maxtor with the Hard Disk Drive group will not result in any federal income tax or state income or franchise tax to Quantum or the previous holders of the Hard Disk Drive common stock. Instead, Maxtor and Quantum have agreed to effect the disposition and the merger on the basis of an opinion from our tax advisor, and a tax opinion insurance policy issued by a syndicate of major insurance companies to us covering up to $340 million of tax loss caused by the disposition and merger. If the disposition of the Hard Disk Drive group is determined not to be tax-free and the tax opinion insurance policy does not fully cover the resulting tax liability, we or our stockholders or both could incur substantial tax liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In May 2006, Maxtor was acquired by Seagate, which assumed Maxtor’s defense and indemnification obligations. The tax opinion insurance policy issued in conjunction with the disposition of the Hard Disk Drive group does not cover all circumstances under which the disposition could become taxable to us, and as a result, we could incur an uninsured tax liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to customary exclusions from its coverage, the tax opinion insurance policy does not cover any federal or state tax payable by us if the disposition becomes taxable to us as a result of a change in relevant tax law. We could incur uninsured tax liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we incur an uninsured tax liability as a result of the disposition of the Hard Disk Drive group, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected. If the disposition of the Hard Disk Drive group were determined to be taxable to Quantum, we would not be able to recover an amount to cover the tax liability either from Maxtor or under the insurance policy in the following circumstances: • If the tax loss were not covered by the policy because it fell under one of the exclusions from coverage under the tax opinion insurance policy described above, insurance proceeds would not be available to cover the loss; • If the tax loss were caused by our own acts or those of a third party that made the disposition taxable (for instance, an acquisition of control of Quantum which began during the one-year period before and nine-month period following the closing), Maxtor would not be obligated to indemnify us for the amount of the tax liability; or • If Maxtor were required to reimburse us for the amount of the tax liability according to its indemnification obligations under the Hard Disk Drive group disposition, but was not able to pay the reimbursement in full, we would nevertheless be obligated, as the taxpayer, to pay the tax. In any of these circumstances, the tax payments due from us could be substantial. In order to pay the tax, we would have to either deplete our existing cash resources or borrow cash to cover our tax obligation. Our payment of a significant tax prior to payment from Maxtor under Maxtor’s indemnification obligations, or in circumstances where Maxtor has no payment obligation, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. In May 2006, Maxtor was acquired by Seagate, which assumed Maxtor’s defense and indemnification obligations. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates relative to our position in such currencies could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not use derivative financial instruments for hedge or speculative purposes. To minimize foreign currency exposure, we use foreign currency obligations to match and offset net currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. Corresponding gains and losses on the underlying transaction generally offset the gains and losses on these foreign currency obligations. We have used in the past, and may use in the future, foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. To the extent that we have assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency that are inadequately hedged or not hedged at all, we may be subject to foreign currency losses, which could be significant. Our international operations can act as a natural hedge when both operating expenses and sales are denominated in local currencies. In these instances, although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of a foreign currency against the U.S. dollar would result in lower sales when translated to U.S. dollars, operating expenses would also be lower in these circumstances. Also, since an insignificant amount of our current sales are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, we do not believe that our total foreign exchange rate exposure is significant. Nevertheless, an increase in the rate at which a foreign currency is exchanged for U.S. dollars would require more of that particular foreign currency to equal a specified amount of U.S. dollars than before such rate increase. In such cases, and if we were to price our products and services in that particular foreign currency, we would receive fewer U.S. dollars than we would have received prior to such rate increase for the foreign currency. Likewise, if we were to price our products and services in U.S. dollars while competitors priced their products in a local currency, an increase in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar would result in our prices being uncompetitive in those markets. Such fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We received comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in regard to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. We responded to these comments on May 11, 2007. Subsequently, we were orally informed by the SEC that we would be receiving an additional comment regarding the fiscal 2006 Form 10-K, but as of our filing date for this Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2007, we have not yet received the comment and do not know the nature of the comment. 