Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could materially and negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that are discussed below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. Additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Economic and Market Conditions Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 through 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession and business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U. S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have improved, certain sectors, such as real estate and manufacturing, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and decreased liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure and merger of a number of financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization levels and of the Deposit Insurance Fund, which has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing loans to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. The substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in the Mahoning Valley (the “Valley”). Consequently, further significant declines in the economy in the Valley could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is uncertain when the negative credit trends in our market will reverse, and, therefore, future earnings are susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the market in which we operate. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect income and financial condition. Our earnings and cash flow are dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and wholesale borrowings). Our level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors, such as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board and market interest rates. 13 Table of Contents Interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. See additional interest rate risk discussion under the Market Risk section found in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we and our subsidiaries interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We manage credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of credit already extended. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending, while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans adhere to corporate policy and problem loans are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk. We have significant exposure to risks associated with commercial real estate and residential real estate. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 63.8% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and residential real estate loans, including real estate development, construction and residential and commercial mortgage loans. Consequently, real estate-related credit risks are a significant concern for us. The adverse consequences from real estate-related credit risks tend to be cyclical and are often driven by national economic developments that are not controllable or entirely foreseeable by us or our borrowers. General difficulties in our real estate markets have recently contributed to increases in our non-performing loans, charge-offs, and decreases in our income. Our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in Ohio. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing such loans, may be significantly affected by economic conditions in the regions we serve or by changes in the local real estate markets. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, acts of terrorism, or other factors beyond our control could therefore have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our indirect lending exposes us to increased credit risks. A portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers located in Northeastern Ohio. These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars. We serve customers over a broad range of creditworthiness, and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, such loans involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk. Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, changes in the local economy, and difficulty in monitoring collateral. While indirect automobile loans are secured, such loans are secured by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in us not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower. Due to the economic slowdown in our primary market area, we currently are experiencing higher delinquencies, charge-offs and repossessions of vehicles in this portfolio. If the economy continues to contract, we may continue to experience higher levels of delinquencies, repossessions and charge-offs. Commercial and industrial loans may expose us to greater financial and credit risk than other loans. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 13.1% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers would hurt our earnings and cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our allowance for loan loss may not be adequate to cover actual future losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover current probable loan losses. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-repayment, and we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which will require additions to the allowance. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. “Liquidity” refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings and other liabilities and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers. Our primary source of liquidity is our 15 Table of Contents core deposit base, which is raised through our retail branch system. Core deposits, which are defined as savings and money market accounts, time deposits less than $100 thousand and demand deposits comprised approximately 88% of total deposits at December 31, 2011. Additional available unused wholesale sources of liquidity include advances from the FHLB, issuances through dealers in the capital markets and access to certificates of deposit issued through brokers. Liquidity is further provided by unencumbered, or unpledged, investment securities that totaled $206 million at December 31, 2011. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Our business strategy includes continuing our growth plans. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy both within our existing markets and in new markets. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate them at market levels. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Strong competition within the market in which we operate could reduce our ability to attract and retain business. In our market, we encounter significant competition from banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial service companies. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, some of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we can offer. In particular, the competition includes major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Our ability to maintain our history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our continued ability to compete successfully in our market. Financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will also depend on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services to our customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include securities dealers, brokers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. 16 Table of Contents Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to operational risk. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss of liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our financial institution business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. If information security is breached, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability or disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. As a bank holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares is dividends from these subsidiaries. Federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our banking and other subsidiaries may pay to us without regulatory approval. In the event our subsidiaries become 17 Table of Contents unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further discussion of our ability to pay dividends can be found under the caption “Dividends and Transactions with Affiliates” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. If capital requirements are raised or if we experience loan losses, additional capital may be needed. In addition, we may elect to raise capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or for other anticipated reasons. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including the satisfaction or release of preemptive rights in the event of a common share offering, many of which are outside our control. Therefore, there can be no assurance additional capital can be raised when needed or that capital can be raised on acceptable terms. The inability to raise capital may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Impairment of investment securities, goodwill, other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions and whether we have the intent to sell the debt security or will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period. Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent it is more likely than not they will be realized. Should management determine it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, a valuation allowance with a change to earnings would be reflected in the period. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The FDIC maintains the Deposit Insurance Fund to resolve the cost of bank failures. Since 2007, the number of bank failures has increased significantly, which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. Also during this period, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have instituted two programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: (i) deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000); and (ii) non-interest bearing transactional accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage) through January 1, 2013. These actions have placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund. Since late 2008, the FDIC has taken various actions intended to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund. These actions have included increasing assessment rates for all insured institutions, requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels, imposing special assessments and requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and full years 2010 through 2012. In addition, on February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that changed the deposit insurance assessment base and assessment rate schedule, adopted a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme, and set a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund. The rule, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, finalized a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund at 2 percent of insured deposits. The final rule went into effect beginning with the second quarter of 2011. 18 Table of Contents We have a limited ability to control the amount of premiums we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures or other significant legislative or regulatory changes, the FDIC may be required to increase assessment rates or take actions similar to those taken during 2009. Increases in FDIC insurance assessment rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by an institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S. There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies do business. A detailed discussion regarding the Dodd-Frank Act can be found under the caption “Dodd-Frank Act” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. We are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with all new or revised laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot currently be determined, the law and its implementing rules and regulations are likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on our banking operations, all of which may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act beginning on July 21, 2011. As a result, some financial institutions have commenced offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer as market interest rates increase. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising in foreclosure practices, including delays in the foreclosure process, related to certain industry deficiencies, as well as potential losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market. Recent announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large seller/servicer financial institutions have raised various concerns relating to mortgage foreclosure practices. The integrity of the foreclosure process is important to our business, as an originator and servicer of residential mortgages. As a result of our continued focus of concentrating our lending efforts in our primary markets in Ohio, as well as servicing loans for the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), we do not anticipate suspending any of our foreclosure activities. During 2010, we reviewed our foreclosure procedures and concluded they are generally conservative in nature and do not present the significant documentation deficiencies underlying other industry foreclosure problems. Nevertheless, we could face delays and challenges in the foreclosure process arising from claims relating to industry practices generally, which could adversely affect recoveries and our financial results, whether through increased expenses of litigation and property maintenance, deteriorating values of underlying mortgaged properties or unsuccessful litigation results generally. In addition, in connection with the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market, we make certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Although we believe that our mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate and are generally conservative in nature, it is possible that we will receive repurchase requests in the future and we may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. It is therefore possible that we may increase our reserves or may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions could delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control by a third party. Provisions of the Ohio General Corporation Law, our Articles of Incorporation, and our Amended Code of Regulations, including a staggered board and supermajority vote requirements for significant corporate changes, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or could have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. 20 Table of Contents We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no matters of unresolved staff comments from the Commission staff. 