Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business could be impacted by any of the risks noted below, although such risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Economic and Market Conditions Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. The capital markets have experienced an easing of the difficult conditions present during 2010 and prior. Dramatic declines in the housing market that resulted in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. These general downward economic trends, the reduced availability of commercial credit and unemployment have all negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit and resulted in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. Although conditions appear to be turning, business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced, and local governments and many companies are still in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. During 2010, the United States was in the beginning stages of economic recovery from the recession. Any worsening or slowing of the economic recovery would have an adverse effect on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies. 12 Table of Contents Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing loans to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. The substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, further significant declines in the economy in Ohio could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. It is uncertain when the negative credit trends in our market will reverse, and, therefore, future earnings are susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the market in which we operate. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect income and financial condition. Our income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. An increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest and principal of their loans, especially borrowers with loans that have adjustable rates of interest. Interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending, while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans and leases adhere to corporate policy and problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk. 13 Table of Contents We have significant exposure to risks associated with commercial and residential real estate. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio consists of commercial and residential real estate-related loans, including real estate development, construction and residential and commercial mortgage loans. Consequently, real estate-related credit risks are a significant concern for us. The adverse consequences from real estate-related credit risks tend to be cyclical and are often driven by national economic developments that are not controllable or entirely foreseeable by us or our borrowers. General difficulties in our real estate markets have recently contributed to increases in our non-performing loans, charge-offs, and decreases in our income. Our indirect lending exposes us to increased credit risks. A portion of our current lending involves the purchase of consumer automobile installment sales contracts from automobile dealers located in Northeastern Ohio. These loans are for the purchase of new or late model used cars. We serve customers over a broad range of creditworthiness, and the required terms and rates are reflective of those risk profiles. While these loans have higher yields than many of our other loans, such loans involve significant risks in addition to normal credit risk. Potential risk elements associated with indirect lending include the limited personal contact with the borrower as a result of indirect lending through dealers, the absence of assured continued employment of the borrower, the varying general creditworthiness of the borrower, changes in the local economy, and difficulty in monitoring collateral. While indirect automobile loans are secured, such loans are secured by depreciating assets and characterized by loan to value ratios that could result in the Bank not recovering the full value of an outstanding loan upon default by the borrower. Due to the economic slowdown in our primary market area, we currently are experiencing higher delinquencies, charge-offs and repossessions of vehicles in this portfolio. If the economy continues to contract, we may continue to experience higher levels of delinquencies, repossessions and charge-offs. Commercial and industrial loans may expose us to greater financial and credit risk than other loans. Commercial and industrial loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers would hurt our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Our allowance for loan loss may not be adequate to cover actual future losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover current, incurred loan losses. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-repayment, and we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which will require additions to the allowance. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes continuing our growth plans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy both within our existing markets and in new markets. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate them at market levels. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Strong competition within the market in which the Bank operates could reduce our ability to attract and retain business. In our market, we encounter significant competition from banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial service companies. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, some of our competitors offer a broader range of products and services than we can offer. In particular, the competition includes major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Our ability to maintain our history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our continued ability to compete successfully in our market. Financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will also depend on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services to our customers. In addition to other banks, competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. 15 Table of Contents We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to operational risk. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss of liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our financial institution business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. If information security is breached, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability or disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents We depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. As a bank holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares is dividends from these subsidiaries. In the event our subsidiaries become unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our banking and other subsidiaries may pay to us without regulatory approval. Our banking subsidiary generally may not, without prior regulatory approval, pay a dividend in an amount greater than their undivided profits. In addition, the prior approval of the OCC is required for the payment of a dividend by the Bank if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years. The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends in the future is currently influenced, and could be further influenced, by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines and may restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. Impairment of investment securities, goodwill, other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions and whether we have the intent to sell the debt security or will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period. Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent it is more likely than not they will be realized. Should management determine it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, a valuation allowance with a change to earnings would be reflected in the period. A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati common stock may adversely affect our financial condition. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati (the “FHLB”), in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value of our FHLB common stock was approximately $3.06 million as of December 31, 2010. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In December 2008, certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system (other than the FHLB) suspended dividend payments and the repurchase of capital stock until further notice. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the FHLB were to cease operations, or if we were required to write-off our investment in the FHLB, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The FDIC maintains the DIF to resolve the cost of bank failures. The DIF is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions, including the Bank. In November 2010, the FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to substantially modify the manner by which fee assessments are determined, including changing the deposit insurance assessment base from total domestic deposits to average total assets minus average tangible equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Final rules regarding proposed changes to the manner and method of DIF fee assessments are expected to be effective April 1, 2011. We cannot provide any assurance as to the effect of any proposed change in DIF assessment rate, should such a change occur, as such changes are dependent upon a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Increases in DIF assessment rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. Additional information regarding the FDIC’s proposed changes to DIF assessment rates is provided in Item 1. Business, in the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision — Deposit Insurance.” Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States. There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including us and the Bank, do business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act changes the assessment base for federal deposit insurance premiums by modifying the deposit insurance assessment base calculation to equal a depository institution’s consolidated assets less tangible capital and permanently increases the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer to $250,000 and non-interest bearing transaction accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance through January 1, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a new agency empowered to promulgate new and revise existing consumer protection regulations which may limit certain consumer fees or otherwise significantly change fee practices. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred issuances from counting as Tier I capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also repeals the federal prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. Other significant changes from provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include, but are not limited to: (i) changes to rules relating to debit card interchange fees; (ii) new comprehensive regulation of the over-the counter derivatives market; (iii) reform related to the regulation of credit rating agencies; (iv) restrictions on the ability of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds; and (v) the implementation of a number of new corporate governance provisions, including, but not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, providing shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, new executive compensation disclosure requirements and considerations regarding the independence of compensation advisors. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. We are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on us cannot currently be determined, the law and its implementing rules and regulations are likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on our operations, all of which may have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising in foreclosure practices, including delays in the foreclosure process, related to certain industry deficiencies, as well as potential losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market. Recent announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large seller/servicer financial institutions have raised various concerns relating to mortgage foreclosure practices in the United States. A group of state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators in all 50 states and the District of Columbia is currently reviewing foreclosure practices and a number of mortgage sellers/servicers have temporarily suspended foreclosure proceedings in some or all states in which they do business in order to evaluate their foreclosure practices and underlying documentation. The integrity of the foreclosure process is important to our business, as an originator and servicer of residential mortgages. As a result of our continued focus of concentrating our lending efforts in our primary markets in Ohio, as well as servicing loans for the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), we do not anticipate suspending any of our foreclosure activities. During 2010, we reviewed our foreclosure procedures and concluded they are generally conservative in nature and do not present the significant documentation deficiencies underlying other industry foreclosure problems. Nevertheless, we could face delays and challenges in the foreclosure process arising from claims relating to industry practices generally, which could adversely affect recoveries and our financial results, whether through increased expenses of litigation and property maintenance, deteriorating values of underlying mortgaged properties or unsuccessful litigation results generally. In addition, in connection with the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market, we make certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Although we believe that our mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate and are generally conservative in nature, it is possible that we will receive repurchase requests in the future and we may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. It is therefore possible that we may increase our reserves or may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no matters of unresolved staff comments from the Commission staff. 