Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in the Corporation’s common stock involve risk. The market price of the Corporation’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: Changes in financial performance Volatility of stock market prices and volumes Rumors or erroneous information Changes in market valuations of similar companies Changes in interest rates New developments in the banking industry Variations in quarterly or annual operating results 3 Table of Contents Item 1A (Continued) New litigation or changes in existing litigation Regulatory actions Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other accounting standards setting bodies. If the Corporation does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. The Corporation’s ability to maintain solid financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand its scope of available financial services to its customers. In addition to other banks, competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, and finance and insurance companies. The increasingly competitive environment is, in part, a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit growth. The Corporation and its’ bank subsidiary are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. Changes to these laws could affect the Corporation’s ability to deliver or expand its services and diminish the value of its business. Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. The Corporation’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond the Corporation’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, a significant decline in the economy in Ohio could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties could have a negative effect on financial performance. Additional factors could have a negative effect on the financial performance of the Bank and the Corporation’s common stock. Some of these factors are general economic and financial market conditions, competition, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions, and losses. 