Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our results of operations and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually 8 Table of Contents occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risk factors outlined below include the risks associated with the consummation of the PMC Transaction, as well as our current operations. Risks Related to Consummation of the PMC Transaction If we do not complete the proposed sale of certain assets related to our business operations to PMC-Sierra, the continued operations of our business may result in losses from operations until an alternate course of action can be implemented. On May 8, 2010, subsequent to our fiscal year-end, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with PMC-Sierra for the sale of certain of our assets related to our business operations. Assuming satisfaction of the closing conditions contained in the Asset Purchase Agreement with PMC-Sierra, we anticipate consummating this transaction in June 2010. Until the consummation of the PMC Transaction, we intend to continue operating our business, subject to the consent of PMC-Sierra as required in certain circumstances pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement. This includes seeking growth opportunities beyond those presented by our existing product lines by entering into strategic alliances or partnerships to grow our business and increase our operating performance; however, we may not succeed in these efforts. The Asset Purchase Agreement with PMC–Sierra places a requirement of PMC-Sierra consent in certain specific circumstances with respect to our ability to operate, dispose of and maintain the assets subject to the PMC Transaction. The Asset Purchase Agreement with PMC-Sierra also includes closing conditions, which include among others (i) required regulatory approvals, (ii) absence of any law or order prohibiting closing, (iii) the absence of any change, development or event that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets being purchased, (iv) certain third party consents, (v) the release of any non-excepted security interests in the assets being purchased, (vi) the absence of any proceedings which could reasonably challenge, restrain, prohibit or make illegal the PMC Transaction, (vii) the delivery of a legal opinion by our legal counsel in Delaware, (viii) the acceptance by certain employees of PMC-Sierra’s offers of employment, (ix) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the parties, and (x) compliance by the parties with their obligations. If the PMC Transaction is not consummated, we may continue to incur operating losses until we can implement an alternate course of action, and we may also be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results, including the loss of customers and employees. We may also be required to record impairment charges for our long-lived assets in the future. If the PMC Transaction is not consummated, we will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We have incurred and will incur substantial transaction costs and expenses in connection with the PMC Transaction. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of our financial advisors and attorneys. Management resources may be diverted in an additional effort to consummate the PMC Transaction, and we are subject to obtaining PMC-Sierra consent in certain specific circumstances with regards to the conduct of our business prior to closing the PMC Transaction. Further, the closing of the PMC Transaction is subject to closing conditions contained in the Asset Purchase Agreement with PMC-Sierra on the conduct of our business. If the PMC Transaction is not consummated, we will have incurred significant costs for which we will have received little or no benefit. In addition, if the PMC Transaction is not consummated, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our stockholders, potential investors, customers and employees. Each of these factors may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pending PMC Transaction may create uncertainty for our customers and employees. While the PMC Transaction is pending, customers may delay or defer decisions to purchase our products and existing customers may experience uncertainty about our products. This may adversely affect our ability to gain new customers and retain existing customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because of the uncertainty regarding our operations, customers may not order our products even if the PMC Transaction is not consummated. Even though we have implemented retention programs with our employees, current employees may experience uncertainty about their relationship with us, and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty involved in our continued operations. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Operations after Consummation of the PMC Transaction If we are successful in consummating the PMC Transaction, our operating results and financial condition may be impacted by significant charges. If the PMC Transaction is consummated, it is likely that we will incur significant charges, at such time. We believe our potential exposure may include, but is not limited to, the following: • increased amortization or depreciation of our long-lived assets due to potential changes to the expected remaining useful lives; • potential impairment of our long-lived assets; • restructuring charges; • acceleration of compensation expense related to unvested stock-based awards; • potential cash bonus payments; and, • potential accelerated payments of certain of our contractual obligations. Such charges, which we cannot quantify at this time, are likely to adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We will likely incur significant restructuring expenses in the near future. Subsequent to our fiscal year-end, we approved a restructuring plan to reduce our operating expenses. We expect to complete our actions by December 2010, which is primarily contingent upon the consummation of the PMC Transaction, including the expected transition services we are required to provide to PMC-Sierra. The restructuring charges to be incurred will primarily result in cash expenditures related to severance and related benefits, and to a lesser extent, exiting certain operating facilities and disposing excess assets. In an effort to continue saving operational costs subsequent to our fiscal year-end, we notified certain of our engineering employees and provided them one-time severance benefits of approximately $1.8 million, which is expected to be recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, as we intend to outsource our ASIC and silicon needs. We cannot quantify the remaining impact of this restructuring plan to our Consolidated Statements of Operations at this time as the remaining restructuring actions are contingent upon the consummation of the PMC Transaction. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing our restructuring plan, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense to our Consolidated Statements of Operations in the near future. If the PMC Transaction is consummated, the NASDAQ Stock Market may determine that we are operating as a “public shell” and may decide to subject us to delisting proceedings or additional and more stringent continued listing criteria. If the PMC Transaction is consummated, the NASDAQ Listings Qualification Panel may determine that after such sale we are a “public shell” company. While the NASDAQ Stock Market has no bright-line or qualitative test for determining whether a particular company is a “public shell,” the exchange has expressed the opinion that the securities of companies operating as “public shells” may be subject to market abuses or other volatile conduct that is detrimental to the interests of the investing public. The NASDAQ Stock Market has defined a public shell as a company with no or nominal operations and either no or nominal assets, assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents, or assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets. Should the PMC Transaction close, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel may perform a facts and circumstances analysis to determine whether they believe we are a “public shell.” Listed companies determined to be “public shells” by the NASDAQ Listings Qualification Panel may be subject to delisting proceedings or additional and more stringent continued listing criteria. If our common stock were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, liquidity in our shares and the trading prices of our shares could be negatively impacted. Should the PMC Transaction be consummated and our other operating assets sold, written-off or disposed of, we may be considered a “shell company” under federal securities laws and may become subject to more stringent reporting requirements. Under Rule 405 of the Securities Act and Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, a shell company is defined as an entity that has no or nominal operations and either (a) no or nominal assets; (b) assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents; or (c) assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash 10 Table of Contents equivalents and nominal other assets. Should the PMC Transaction be consummated, depending on our future activities and operations, we may be deemed a “shell company” under the federal securities laws and regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules prohibit the use of Form S-8 for the registration of shares under equity incentive plans by a shell company and require a shell company to file a Form 8-K to report the same type of information that would be required if it were filing to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act whenever the shell company is reporting the event that caused it to cease being a shell company. Being a shell company may adversely impact our ability to offer our stock to officers, directors and consultants, and thereby make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals to perform services for us, and will likely increase the costs of registration compliance following the completion of a business combination. If the PMC Transaction is consummated and depending on our future activities and operations, we may be deemed an investment company, which could impose on us burdensome compliance requirements and restrict our activities, which may make it difficult for us to complete future business combinations or acquisitions. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, requires registration, as an investment company, of companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. Generally, companies may be deemed investment companies under the Investment Company Act if they are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or they own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets. After the consummation of the PMC Transaction and depending on our future activities and operations, we may become subject to the Investment Company Act. While Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act provides an exemption that allows companies that may be deemed investment companies but that have a bona fide intent to engage primarily in a business other than that of investing in securities up to one year to engage in such other business activity, we may not qualify for this or any other exemption under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of and custodial requirements for holding our investments; and • restrictions on our issuance of securities which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. If we become subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional costs and expenses. There can be no assurance that we will not be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act or that we will qualify for the exemption under Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act. If the carrying value of our long-lived assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss must be recognized which would adversely affect our financial results. Certain events or changes in circumstances would require us to assess the recoverability of the carrying value amount of our long-lived assets. With the announcement made by us in December 2009 that we initiated a process to pursue the potential sale or disposition of certain of our assets or business operations, we evaluated our long-lived assets to determine whether the carrying value would be recoverable. As we continued through this sale process on certain of our assets or business operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we reevaluated the recoverability of our long-lived assets’ carrying value at March 31, 2010. Based on our analysis, our long-lived assets were not considered impaired in either the third or fourth quarters of fiscal 2010 as the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows exceeded the carrying value of our long-lived assets of $ $27.4 million at March 31, 2010. However, if the PMC Transaction is consummated, the carrying value of our remaining long-lived assets may not be recoverable in the future whether or not we decide to continue our efforts in the sale of the Aristos products or wind down or dispose of the Aristos products. As a result, if certain events or changes in circumstances arise, we may be required to record 11 Table of Contents impairment charges for our long-lived assets in future periods or shorten the remaining useful life of our long-lived assets, which would require us to record higher amortization or depreciation expense in future periods. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Our common stock may become a “penny stock” pursuant to Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are defined as equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 per share, with certain exemptions. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to purchase or sale of a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver to the customer a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks associated with the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market of a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. If the PMC Transaction is consummated, failure to successfully identify and enter into a new line of business or identify possible acquisition candidates could cause our stock price to decline. If the PMC Transaction is consummated, we expect to pursue actively a new line of business operations and to explore all strategic alternatives to maximize stockholder value going forward, including deploying the proceeds of the PMC Transaction and our other assets in seeking business acquisition opportunities and other actions to redeploy our capital, while we manage our remaining operations. In relation to pursuing such strategic alternatives and new business acquisition opportunities, our stock price may decline due to any or all of the following potential occurrences: • we may not be able to identify a profitable new line of business or deploy successfully our resources to operate profitably in such line of business; • we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates or may not be able to acquire suitable candidates with our limited financial resources; • we may not be able to utilize our existing NOLs to offset future earnings; • we may have difficulty retaining our key remaining employees; and • we may have difficulty retaining our Board of Directors or attracting suitable qualified candidates should a current director resign. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business and investment opportunities once the PMC Transaction is consummated. We have incurred recurring operating losses related to our operations since 2001 (other than during 2004). If the PMC Transaction is consummated, we intend to explore strategic alternatives and identify new business acquisition opportunities in which we may utilize our NOLs. There is no guarantee that we will be able to identify such new business acquisition opportunities or strategic alternatives in which we may redeploy our assets and the proceeds of the PMC Transaction. If we are unable to identify new business opportunities or acquire suitable acquisition candidate(s), we may continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows, and our results of operations and stock price may suffer. Following the consummation of the PMC Transaction, our stockholders may be subject to the broad discretion of management. Should the PMC Transaction be consummated, we will have limited operating assets, and our business strategy will involve identifying new business and investment opportunities. Our stockholders may not have an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any such proposed transactions or investments. As a result, our stockholders may be dependent on the broad discretion and judgment 12 Table of Contents of management in connection with the application of our capital and the selection of acquisition or investment targets. There can be no assurance that determinations ultimately made by us will permit us to achieve profitable operations. There may be risks associated with acquisitions and investments pursued after consummation of the PMC Transaction, including our decisions to sell, write-off or dispose of our remaining operating assets. As part of our business strategy following consummation of the PMC Transaction, we may evaluate new acquisition and investment opportunities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and products or services of the acquired companies, the expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent integration of operations and products or services and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify, complete or integrate any future acquisitions or investments or that completed acquisitions or investments will contribute favorably to our operations and future financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to certain risks and liabilities depending on our continued efforts to sell our Aristos products or other current operating assets or wind-down or dispose of our Aristos products or other current operating assets, including requirements under existing contracts with customers for our Aristos products, and possible disposition of our non-core patent portfolio and remaining real estate assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully wind-down or dispose of our Aristos products and fulfill all of our contractual obligations with customers of such products by September 2010, or successfully dispose of or redeploy our non-core patent portfolio and remaining real estate assets, which may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and stock price. We will incur significant costs in connection with our evaluation of new business opportunities and suitable acquisition candidates. If the PMC Transaction is consummated, our management intends to identify, analyze and evaluate potential new business opportunities, including possible acquisition and merger candidates. We will incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses, as part of these efforts. Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we cannot give any assurance that we will identify an appropriate new business opportunity, or any acquisition opportunity, in the near term, or at all. We will likely have no operating history in our new line of business, which is yet to be determined, and therefore we will be subject to the risks inherent in establishing a new business. We have not identified what our new line or lines of business will be and, therefore, we cannot fully describe the specific risks presented by such business. It is likely that we will have had no operating history in the new line of business, and it is possible that any company we may acquire will have a limited operating history in its business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations will generate operating or net income, and as such our success will be subject to the risks, expenses, problems and delays inherent in establishing a new line of business for us. The ultimate success of such new business cannot be assured. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our NOLs. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain limits and adjustments. Based on current income tax rates, our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon our ability to comply with the rules relating to the use of NOLs and the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable new business opportunities and acquisition candidates that maximize our NOLs, and once identified, successfully becoming established in this new business line or consummating such an acquisition. Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOLs would be subject to an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOLs to offset taxable income. The amount of NOLs that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS. The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOLs, and our 13 Table of Contents determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred, and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, may limit our ability to carry forward our NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOLs to us could be substantially reduced. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to our stockholders and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our business strategy will be to make acquisitions. While we may make acquisition(s) in whole or in part with cash, as part of such strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration, our existing stockholders’ equity interest may be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. We may face litigation from stockholders related to the consummation of the PMC Transaction. With respect to the PMC Transaction, we may be subject to purported class action or derivative complaints that may be filed against us. The outcome of this potential future litigation is difficult to predict and quantify and the defense of such claims or actions can be costly. Such potential litigation would divert financial and management resources and result in general business disruption, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately held liable. A temporary or permanent injunction could delay or prevent completion of the PMC Transaction and such delay or failure could adversely affect us and cause adverse effects in our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Risk Factors Related to Operations Should the PMC Transaction not be Consummated As our revenue base continues to decline from our current operations, we may choose to exit or divest some or all of our current operations to focus on new opportunities. Should the PMC Transaction not be consummated, our management team will continue to review and evaluate our product portfolio, operating structure, and markets to determine the future viability of our existing products and market positions, including any possible alternative transaction(s), and the possible future divestiture in an alternate transaction of certain of our assets or business operations, should it be determined that the infrastructure and expenses necessary to sustain our existing business or product offerings are greater than the potential contribution margin that will be obtainable in the future. As a result, we may determine that it is in our best interest to continue to explore transactions in which we seek to sell, exit or divest such business or product offering. For example, subsequent to our fiscal year-end, as previously announced, we continue to consider our options related to our Aristos products, which includes an effort to sell, wind-down or dispose of these products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully wind-down or dispose of our products and technology obtained from our acquisition of Aristos and fulfill all of our contractual obligations with customers of such products, which may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Should the PMC Transaction not be consummated and the sale or disposition process were continued, such process may create uncertainty in the marketplace with our customers and our suppliers, which could result in the following: • loss of customers; • reduced revenue base; • increased dependency on suppliers; • inability to obtain products or services in a timely manner for competitive prices; • increased operating costs; 14 Table of Contents • employee attrition; • impairment of our long-lived assets; • material restructuring charges; and • loss of liquidity. In the past, we have depended on a small number of large OEM customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and we may not be successful in obtaining new OEM designs wins, which may prevent us from sustaining or growing our revenues from OEM customers. We have evaluated the OEM portion of our business, and, should the PMC Transaction not be consummated, we are likely to focus many of our efforts on our channel business opportunities and selectively or opportunistically pursue future business from OEM customers with our current product portfolio, as we believe the future growth opportunities with OEMs for most of our current products are limited. While we gained some new OEM business and opportunities for products containing unified serial technologies as a result of the Aristos acquisition that have resulted in sales, we believe such sales are unlikely to offset the decline in OEM sales from our legacy products in the future as we continue to consider our options to sell, exit or divest our Aristos products. We depend on a few key customers and the loss of any of them could significantly reduce our net revenues. Historically, a small number of our customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues. For example, in fiscal 2010, IBM, Bell Microproducts and Ingram Micro accounted for 17%, 16% and 15% of our total net revenues, respectively, and in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, IBM accounted for 36% and 40% of our total net revenues, respectively. We believe that our major customers continually evaluate whether or not to purchase products from alternate or additional sources. Additionally, our customers’ economic and market conditions frequently change, and many of our customers may be negatively impacted by the current global economic turmoil. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that one or more of our major customers will not reduce, delay or eliminate its purchases from us, which would likely cause our revenues to decline further. Our current customers may also reduce or eliminate their purchases from us due to the uncertainty of our future operations. While we have gained some new OEM business and opportunities for products containing unified serial technologies as a result of the Aristos acquisition that have resulted in sales, such sales are unlikely to offset the decline in OEM sales from our legacy products in the future; therefore, we will currently be increasingly dependent on our channel products and customers for future revenue growth. This is particularly critical because our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts. As a result, we cannot assure you that our few key customers will continue to purchase quantities of our products at current levels, or at all. If our design wins do not result in significant sales, our revenues will continue to decline. A “design win” occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated within its product. The success that we ultimately experience from a design win is largely a factor of the success of the customer’s product into which our product has been integrated. We have virtually no control over, and sometimes have very little visibility, as to the success of our customer’s products, which is dependent upon a number of factors including current market conditions. If our design wins do not result in significant sales, our revenues will continue to decline which could adversely affect our business. Our operations depend on the efforts of our workforce, particularly our executives, principal engineers and other key employees, the loss of whom could affect the growth and success of our business. To be successful, we must retain and motivate our executives, our principal engineers and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. In particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Competition for experienced management, technical, marketing and support personnel such as these remains intense. We must also continue to motivate all of our other employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to morale challenges posed by the uncertainty of our future operations and their future employment with us. Each of our employees is an “at-will” employee, and, as a result, any of our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. Due to the general uncertainty regarding the outlook of our company, we have implemented a retention plan in an effort to retain some of our key 15 Table of Contents employees. The loss of any of our key employees as well as a high level of attrition from all our other employees could have a significant impact on our operations. In addition, should the PMC Transaction be consummated, we will be required to fulfill certain transition services to PMC-Sierra, and the loss of any of our employees that are key to such transition activities could have an adverse effect on, and increase the cost of, providing these transition services. If we do not meet our expense reduction and cost containment goals, we may have to continue to implement additional restructuring plans to reduce our operating costs. This may cause us to incur additional material restructuring charges and result in adverse effects on our employee capacities. We implemented several restructuring plans and recorded related restructuring charges of $1.6 million, $6.1 million and $6.3 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These restructuring plans primarily involved the reduction of our workforce and the closure of certain facilities. The goals of our restructuring plans that were implemented were to bring our operational expenses to appropriate levels relative to our net revenues, while simultaneously implementing extensive company-wide expense-control programs. Subsequent to our fiscal year-end, we approved a restructuring plan to reduce our operating expenses. We expect to complete our actions by December 2010, which is primarily contingent upon the consummation of the PMC Transaction, including the expected transition services we are required to provide to PMC-Sierra. The restructuring charges to be incurred will primarily result in cash expenditures related to severance and related benefits, and to a lesser extent, exiting certain operating facilities and disposing excess assets. In an effort to continue saving operational costs subsequent to our fiscal year-end, we notified certain of our engineering employees and provided them one-time severance benefits of approximately $1.8 million, which is expected to be recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, as we intend to outsource our ASIC and silicon needs. We cannot quantify the remaining impact of this restructuring plan to our Consolidated Statements of Operations at this time as the remaining restructuring actions are contingent upon the consummation of the PMC Transaction. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing our restructuring plan, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense to our Consolidated Statements of Operations in the near future. Further, our restructuring plan could result in a potential adverse effect on employee capabilities that could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Economic conditions have deteriorated significantly in the past in many of the countries and regions in which we do business and may be depressed for the foreseeable future. Global economic conditions have also been challenged by worldwide liquidity and credit concerns and the related effects on economies around the world. While the liquidity crisis has passed and we have seen some improvement in global economic conditions, any adverse global economic conditions in our markets that may occur in the future would likely negatively impact our business, which could result in: • reduced demand for our products; • increased price competition for our products; • increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • increased risk in the collectibility of cash from our customers; • increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; and • higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. If the global economic crisis causes demand in the server and network storage markets to decline, demand for our products would also likely be negatively affected. Some of the factors that could influence demand in the server and network storage markets include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, labor costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting corporate spending behavior. It is difficult to predict future server sales growth, if any. If global economic conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We may sustain losses in our investment portfolio due to adverse changes in the global credit markets. Global economic conditions have been challenged in the past by slowing growth and the sub-prime debt devaluation crisis, causing worldwide liquidity and credit concerns. While the liquidity and credit concerns have passed and we have seen some improvement in global economic conditions, any adverse change in global economic conditions may adversely impact our financial results. A substantial portion of our assets consists of investments in marketable securities that we hold as available-for-sale and mark to market. While there has been a decline in the trading values of certain of the securities in which we have invested, we have not recognized a material loss on our securities as the unrealized losses incurred were not deemed to be other-than-temporary. We expect to realize the full value of all our marketable securities upon maturity or sale, as we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until the full value is realized. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, which may require us to record an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial results. If our customers or financial institutions that maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, experience financial difficulties, which is more likely in the current weakened state of the economy, our revenues, operating results or cash balances may be adversely impacted. We do not carry credit insurance on our accounts receivables and any difficulty in collecting outstanding amounts due from our customers, particularly customers that place larger orders or experience financial difficulties, could adversely affect our revenues and our operating results. In addition, we maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with certain financial institutions in which our balances exceed the limits that are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. If the underlying financial institutions fail or other adverse conditions occur in the financial markets, our cash balances may be impacted. We depend on contract manufacturers and subcontractors, and if they fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it could delay shipments of our products and result in the loss of customers or revenues and increased manufacturing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our results. We rely on contract manufacturers for manufacturing our products and subcontractors for the assembly and packaging of the integrated circuits included in our products. In February 2009, we entered into a three-year manufacturing agreement with Sanmina-SCI to manufacture a majority of our products. However, this three-year strategic manufacturing agreement with Sanmina-SCI will be transferred to PMC-Sierra assuming the PMC Transaction is consummated. We must work closely with Sanmina-SCI to ensure that products are delivered on a timely basis. In addition, we must ensure that Sanmina-SCI continues to provide quality products. However, with our intent to pursue the potential sale or disposition regarding certain of our assets or our business operations, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining products and/or services in a timely manner for competitive prices from our suppliers. If Sanmina-SCI is unwilling or unable to meet our supply needs, as was the case in the earlier stages of our contract with them, including timely delivery and adherence to standard quality, we could lose customers or revenues and incur increased manufacturing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Due to the nature of this relationship, and the continuous changes in the prices of components and parts, we are in ongoing negotiations with Sanmina-SCI concerning product pricing. Any adverse outcome of future negotiations concerning product pricing could adversely impact our gross margins. We have no long-term agreements with our assembly and packaging subcontractors. We also employ Amkor Technology and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering to final assemble and test operations related to our ASIC products. We cannot assure you that these subcontractors will continue to be able and willing to meet our requirements. Any significant disruption in supplies from or degradation in the quality of components or services supplied by these contract manufacturers and subcontractors could delay shipments and result in the loss of customers or revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The impact of industry technology transitions and market acceptance of our new products may cause our revenues to continue to decline. We have experienced a significant decline in our revenues as the industry continues to transition from parallel to serial connectivity, as the revenues we generate from sales of our serial products has not grown at a fast enough rate to offset declines in sales of our parallel products. We expect this trend to continue in future periods. In addition, products that we may develop may not gain sufficient market 17 Table of Contents acceptance to offset the decline in revenues from certain of our existing products or otherwise contribute significantly to revenues. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our revenues to continue to decline. Our dependence on new products may cause our net revenues to fluctuate or decline. If the PMC Transaction is not consummated, our future success may depend upon our completing and introducing enhanced and new products at competitive prices and performance levels in a timely manner. The success of new product introductions depends on several factors, including the following: • designing products to meet customer needs; • product costs; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • quality of new products; • differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; and • market acceptance of our products. Our product life cycles may be as brief as 12 months. As a result, we believe that we may continue to incur significant expenditures for research and development in the future. We may fail to identify new product opportunities and may not develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, or our targeted customers may not select our products for design or integration into their products. The failure of any of our new product development efforts could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have introduced RAID-enabled products based on the next generation SATA technology and delivered our products based on SAS technology to certain major customers for testing and integration. We will not succeed in generating significant revenues from our new SATA and SAS technology products if the market does not adapt to these new technologies, which would, over time, adversely affect our net revenues and operating results. If we lose the cooperation of other hardware and software producers whose products are integral to ours, our ability to sustain or grow our revenues could be adversely affected. We must design our current products to operate effectively with a variety of hardware and software products supplied by other manufacturers, including the following: • I/O and RAID ASICs; • microprocessors; • peripherals; • system software; • server and desktop motherboards; and • enclosures. We depend on significant cooperation from these manufacturers to achieve our design objectives and develop products that operate successfully with their products. These companies could, from time to time, elect to make it more difficult for us to design our products for successful operability with their products. For example, if one or more of these companies were to determine that as a result of competition or other factors, our products would not be broadly accepted by the markets we target, these companies may no longer work with us to plan for new products and new generations of our products, which would make it more difficult to introduce products on a timely basis or at all. Further, some of these companies might decide not to continue to offer products that are compatible with our technology and our markets could contract. If any of these events were to occur, our revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively, our net revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. The markets for all of our products are intensely competitive and are characterized by the following: • rapid technological advances; • frequent new product introductions; • evolving industry standards; and • price erosion. To be competitive, our current products must be enhanced and improved on a timely basis to keep pace with market demands. If we do not do so, or if our competition is more effective in developing products that meet the needs of our existing and potential customers, we may lose market share and not participate in the future growth of our target markets. Revenues for our SATA products sold to our OEM customers have declined and we expect these revenues to continue to decline, as our products are at the end of their life cycles and certain of our customers have moved to other suppliers to obtain next generation SATA technologies. We also expect a negative impact on our net revenues from a decline in sales of our serial legacy products sold to OEMs in future quarters as IBM notified us in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 that we did not receive design wins for their new serial products. Our future revenue growth remains largely dependent on the success of our new products addressing unified serial technologies and growing our market share in the channel, and our future operating results will be influenced by our ability to participate in the development of the network storage market in which we face intense competition from other companies that are also focusing on networked storage products. In June 2009, we launched a new product in the unified serial RAID controller family, Series 5Z, which leverages solid state technology to eliminate the need to monitor battery charge levels or shut down servers for battery replacement. If we experience an incremental decline in our revenues beyond the declines anticipated, and we are unable to effectively manage our inventory levels, we may be required to record additional inventory-related charges, which would adversely impact our gross margins. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to accomplish any or all of the following: • satisfy any growth in demand for our products; • make timely introductions of new products; • compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors; or • prevent price competition from eroding margins. We depend on the efforts of our distributors, which if reduced, could result in a loss of sales of our products in favor of competitive offerings. We derived approximately 65% of our total net revenues for fiscal 2010 from independent distributor and reseller channels. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our relationships with these distributors or resellers were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of these distributors or resellers were to decline. We continue to monitor and evaluate our distributors and may terminate distributor relationships to improve our product placement or improve distribution channels; however, the termination of a distributor may adversely affect our financial results in the short term. Our distributors generally offer a diverse array of products from several different manufacturers. Accordingly, we are at risk that these distributors may give higher priority to selling products from other suppliers. A reduction in sales efforts by our current distributors could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our distributors build inventories in anticipation of future sales, and if such sales do not occur as rapidly as they anticipate, our distributors will decrease the size of their product orders. If we decrease our price protection or distributor-incentive programs, our distributors may also decrease their orders from us. In addition, we have from time to time taken actions to reduce levels of products at distributors and may do so in the future. These actions may affect our net revenues and negatively affect our financial results. We currently purchase all of the finished production silicon wafers, chips and other key components used in our products from suppliers, and if they fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. Independent foundries manufacture to our specifications all of the finished silicon wafers and chips used for our products. We currently 19 Table of Contents purchase finished production silicon wafers used in our products from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, and purchase finished production chips from LSI Corporation. In addition, we purchase some of our key components used in our products from sole-source suppliers. The manufacture of semiconductor devices and other components are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the following: • the availability of raw materials; • the availability of manufacturing capacity; • transition to smaller geometries of semiconductor devices; • the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • impurities in the materials used; and • the performance of personnel and equipment. We cannot assure you that manufacturing problems may not occur in the future. A shortage of raw materials or production capacity could lead our suppliers to allocate available capacity to other customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers and other key components with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely deliveries would delay our production and our product shipments, and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We expect that our suppliers will continually seek to convert their processes for manufacturing wafers and key components to more advanced process technologies. Such conversions entail inherent technological risks that can affect yields and delivery times. If for any reason the suppliers we use are unable or unwilling to satisfy our wafer and other key component needs, we will be required to identify and qualify additional suppliers. Additional suppliers for wafers and other key components may be unavailable, may take significant amounts of time to qualify or may be unable to satisfy our requirements on a timely basis. Because our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, if demand for our customers’ products declines or if our customers do not control their inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us or reduce their levels of purchases from us. The volume and timing of orders received during a quarter are difficult to forecast. Our customers generally order based on their forecasts and they frequently encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. If demand falls below such forecasts or if our customers do not control their inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us. Our customers have from time to time in the past canceled or rescheduled shipments previously ordered from us, and we cannot assure you that they will not do so in the future. As our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, we cannot assure you that these customers will continue to purchase quantities of our products at current levels, or at all. Historically, we have set our operating budget based on forecasts of future revenues because we do not have significant backlog. Because much of our operating budget is relatively fixed in the short-term, if revenues do not meet our expectations, then our financial results will be adversely affected. If we fail to adequately forecast demand for our products, we may incur excess product inventory costs and our financial results will be adversely affected. As the sales of our products are completed through standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, we provide our contract manufacturer forecasts based on anticipated future demand from our customers. To the extent that our customers’ demands fall below their initial forecasts and we are unable to sell the product to another customer, and because our purchase commitment lead time to manufacture products with our contract manufacturer is longer than the lead time for a customer to cancel or reschedule an order, we may be exposed to excess product inventory costs and our financial results will be adversely affected. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and are likely to continue to fluctuate, and if our future results are below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and are likely to vary significantly in the future, based on a number of factors related to our industry and the markets for our products. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate include those discussed in this Risk 20 Table of Contents Factors section. For example, in fiscal 2009, our operating results were materially impacted by unusual charges, such as a goodwill impairment charge of $16.9 million. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenues, and a large portion of our expenses, including facility costs and salaries, are fixed in the short term. As a result, lower than anticipated revenues for any reason could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Due to the factors summarized above, and the other risks described in this section, we believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results as an indication of our future performance. In the event that our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. We may be subject to a higher effective tax rate that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and in the foreign taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation and is subject to audit and redetermination by the taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the following factors could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements: • the jurisdiction in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. The factors noted above may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our reliance on industry standards and technological changes in the marketplace may cause our net revenues to fluctuate or decline. The computer industry is characterized by various, evolving standards and protocols. We design our products to conform to certain industry standards and protocols such as the following: Technologies: •CIFS •PCI •Ethernet •PCIe •Fibre channel •PCI-X •FTP •RAID •HTTP •SAS •IPsec •SATA •iSCSI •SCSI •NFS •SMI-S Operating Systems: •Linux •UNIX •MacOS •VMware •Netware •Windows 21 Table of Contents If user acceptance of these standards declines, or if new standards emerge, and if we do not anticipate these changes and develop new products accordingly, these changes could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business. We may from time to time be subject to various state, federal, and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. Although not currently mandated by any laws and regulations, we experienced a delay in sales from some of our customers that required halogen-free products, which eliminated the use of environmentally sensitive materials, including certain “salt-formers.” If our products become non-compliant with the various environmental laws and regulations or no longer meet our customer specification for environmental products, we may suffer a loss of revenues, be unable to sell affected products in certain markets or countries and be at a competitive disadvantage. We could also incur substantial costs to comply our products to meet the environmental needs of our customers, laws and regulations, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. If we do not provide adequate support during our customers’ design and development stage, or if we are unable to provide such support in a timely manner, we may lose revenues to our competitors. Certain of our products are designed to meet our customers’ specifications and, to the extent we are not able to meet these expectations in a timely manner or provide adequate support during our customers’ design and development stage, our customers may choose to buy similar products from another company. If this were to occur, we may lose revenues and market share to our competitors. If there is a shortage of components used in our customers’ products, our sales may decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. If our customers are unable to purchase certain components that are embedded into their products, their demand for our products may decline. In addition, we or our customers may be impacted by component shortages if components that comply with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances directive are not available. Similar shortages of components used in our products or our customers’ products could adversely affect our net revenues and financial results in future periods. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenues and gross margins. We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technologies, including both hardware and software. Software often contains “bugs” which can interfere with expected operations. We cannot assure you that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect our gross margins if the costs of remedying the problems exceed reserves established for that purpose. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, and withdrawal, at least temporarily, from a product or market segment, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, product reengineering expenses, and a material impact on revenues and gross margins. To execute our strategies, we may enter into strategic alliances with, or partner with companies with complementary or strategic products or technologies or make other structural changes to our business. Costs associated with these strategic alliances or partnerships may adversely affect our results of operations. This impact could be exacerbated if we are unable to integrate the products or technologies. We may pursue strategic transactions or partnerships to scale our business as sales of our core parallel products continue to decline. These may include both strengthening our partnerships in silicon-based technology and broadening our silicon-based intellectual property to improve our business opportunities. To be successful in any strategic alliances or partnerships that we may enter into or make, we must: • conduct strategic alliances or partnerships that enhance our time to market with new products; • successfully prevail over competing bidders for target strategic alliances or partnerships at an acceptable price; • invest in technologies that contribute to the profitable growth of our business; 22 Table of Contents • develop the capabilities necessary to exploit newly acquired technologies; and • consider structural changes to achieve additional stockholder return. The benefits of any strategic alliances or partnerships may prove to be less than anticipated and may not outweigh the costs reported in our financial statements, and we may not obtain the operational leverage or realize the improvements we intend or desire with the actions we take. Completing any potential future strategic alliances or partnerships could cause significant diversions of management time and resources and divert focus from the activities of our current operations. In addition, we may be required to invest significant resources to perform under a strategic alliance or partnership, which could adversely affect our results of operations, at least in the short-term, even if we believe the strategic alliance or partnership will benefit us in the long-term. If we are not successful in completing strategic alliances or partnerships with companies with complementary or strategic products or technologies, our future growth may be hindered. To scale our operations relative to our cost basis, we may need to identify attractive strategic alliance or partnership candidates and complete a transaction with them. If we fail to identify and complete successful strategic alliances or partnerships, we expect that our revenues will continue to decline and we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Some of our products contain “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Some of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, or GPL, GNU Lesser General Public License, or LGPL, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License and the Apache License. Some of those licenses may require as a condition of the license that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating, or using the open source software, that we provide notices with our products, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of those open source licenses, we could be required to incur legal expenses in defending against such allegations, and if our defenses were not successful we could be enjoined from distribution of the products that contained the open source software and required to either make the source code for the open source software available, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software, or to remove the open source software from our products, which could disrupt our distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could under some of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any such open source licenses, we could also be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract for our past distribution of such open source software. Our international operations involve a number of political, economic and other risks that could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in certain countries, create local economic conditions that reduce demand for our products among our target markets and expose us to potential disruption in the supply of necessary components. Our international operations and sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, and changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. Many of our subcontractors are primarily located in Asia and we have sales offices and customers located throughout Europe, Japan and other countries. In addition, because our primary wafer supplier, TSMC, is located in Taiwan, we may be subject to certain risks resulting from political instability in Taiwan, including conflicts between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China. These and other international risks could result in the creation of political or other non-economic barriers to our being able to sell our products in certain countries, create local economic conditions that reduce demand for our products among our target markets, expose us to potential disruption in the supply of necessary components or otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate 23 Table of Contents revenues and operate effectively. In addition, the operations of our remote locations are subject to management oversight and control. If our business practices and corporate controls are not adhered to worldwide, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties to transport our products. We rely on independent freight forwarders to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers. Any transport or delivery problems because of their errors, or because of unforeseen interruptions in their activities due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters and accidents, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making estimates and assumptions, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. For example, we have identified key accounting estimates in our Critical Accounting Policies included in “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which include revenue recognition, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities valuation, inventory, impairment of long-lived assets, stock-based compensation and income taxes. Furthermore, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies essential to preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures. Although we believe that our judgments and estimates are appropriate and correct, actual future results may differ materially from our estimates. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete effectively. Although we actively maintain and defend our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Asia and Europe, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations outside of the United States and sell to a worldwide customer base, we are more dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property in international environments than would be the case if a larger portion of our operations were domestic. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, which could harm our business and ability to compete effectively. We have from time to time discovered counterfeit copies of our products being manufactured or sold by others. Although we have programs to detect and deter the counterfeiting of our products, significant availability of counterfeit products could reduce our revenues and damage our reputation and goodwill with customers. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us, which may be expensive to defend and could divert our resources. From time to time, third parties assert exclusive patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to our key technologies, and we expect to continue to receive such claims in the future. The risks of receiving additional claims from third parties may be increased in periods when we begin to offer product lines employing new technologies relative to our existing products. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert other infringement claims against us, directly or indirectly, in the future, that assertions by third parties will not result in costly litigation or that we would prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed intellectual property from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. These claims may be asserted in respect of intellectual property that we own or that we license from others. In addition to claims brought against us by third parties, we may also bring litigation against others to protect our rights. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources and management time and attention, and could adversely affect our business and financial results. 24 Table of Contents We may be required to pay additional income taxes which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. Our tax provision continues to reflect judgment and estimation regarding components of the settlement such as interest calculations and the application of the settlements to foreign, state and local taxing jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. In fiscal 2009, the IRS concluded its audit of our federal income tax returns for the fiscal 2004 through 2006 audit cycle. The IRS issued a No Change Report indicating no change to our tax liability; however, the IRS continues to have the ability to adjust tax attributes relating to these years in subsequent audits. We believe that we have provided sufficient tax provisions for these years and that the ultimate outcome of any future IRS audits that include the tax attributes will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations in future periods. While the tax authorities in the foreign jurisdictions that we operate in continue to audit our tax returns for fiscal years subsequent to 1999, the potential outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in material tax provisions or additional tax payments in future periods. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention. From time to time we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention, and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our exposures have related to non-dollar-denominated operating expenses in Europe and Asia. We began Euro-denominated sales to our distribution customers in the European Union in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003; however, we switched back to United States dollar-denominated sales to our distribution customers in the European Union in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement. We hold non-controlling interests in privately held venture funds, and if these venture funds face financial difficulties in their operations, our investments could be impaired. We continue to hold non-controlling interest in privately held venture funds. At March 31, 2010, the carrying value of such investments aggregated $1.2 million. These investments are inherently risky because these venture funds invest in companies that may still be in the development stage or depend on third parties for financing to support their ongoing operations. In addition, the markets for the technologies or products of these companies are typically in the early stages and may never develop. If these companies do not have adequate cash funding to support their operations, or if they encounter difficulties developing their technologies or products, the venture funds’ investments in these companies may be impaired, which in turn, could result in impairment of our investment in these venture funds. For example, in fiscal 2009, the value of our non-controlling interest in privately held venture funds, declined resulting in a recorded charge of $0.4 million. The carrying value of these investments is based on quarterly statements we receive from the funds. The statements are generally received one quarter in arrears, as more timely valuations are not practical. The statements reflect the net asset value, which we use to determine the fair value for these investments, which (a) do not have a readily determinable fair value and 25 Table of Contents (b) either have the attributes of an investment company or prepare their financial statements consistent with the measurement principles of an investment company. The assumptions we use due to lack of observable inputs may impact the fair value of these equity investments in future periods. While we have seen some improvement in global economic conditions, any adverse changes in equity investments and current market conditions may require us to record an impairment charge against all or a portion of the investments in the future. Such an action would adversely affect our financial results. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the SEC, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we devote resources to respond to their requirements. In particular, we incurred additional administrative expense to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the NASDAQ Global Market, on which our common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and may continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We also expect these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Internal control deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge. Over time we may identify and correct deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, where and when appropriate, report on the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses. However, the internal control procedures can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that deficiencies or weaknesses are identified. Deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge, and the identification and corrections of these deficiencies or weaknesses could have a material impact on our results of operations. Internal control issues that appear minor now may later become material weaknesses. We are required to publicly report on deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that meet a materiality standard as required by law and related regulations and interpretations. Management may, at a point in time, accurately categorize a deficiency or weakness as immaterial or minor and therefore not be required to publicly report such deficiency or weakness. Such determination, however, does not preclude a change in circumstances such that the deficiency or weakness could, at a later time, become a material weakness that could have a material impact on our results of operations. We may encounter natural disasters, which could cause disruption to our employees or interrupt the manufacturing process for our products. Our operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters are located in California, near major earthquake faults. Additionally, our primary wafer supplier, TSMC, is located in Taiwan, which has experienced significant earthquakes in the past. A severe earthquake could cause disruption to our employees or interrupt the manufacturing process, which could affect TSMC’s ability to supply wafers to us, which would negatively affect our business and financial results. The ultimate impact on us and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our net revenues and financial condition and our costs and expenses could be significantly impacted in the event of a major earthquake. Manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, as a company with headquarters and significant operations located in the 26 Table of Contents United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. We may experience significant fluctuations in our stock price. Our stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of quarterly variations in our operating results, the published expectations of securities analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, particularly in recent months, that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been related to the extraordinary conditions in the broader macroeconomic and financial markets. These factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in the price of our common stock during any given period of time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 