Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our results of operations and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Actions that we have taken and the actions that we are considering could adversely affect our business and financial results in the short-term, and may not have the long-term beneficial results that we intend. Our management team continuously reviews and evaluates all aspects of our business, including our product portfolio, our relationships with strategic partners and our research and development focus and sales and marketing efforts to better scale our operations relative to our cost basis. The actions that we have taken and the actions that we are considering could adversely affect our business and financial results in the short-term, may not have the long-term beneficial results that we intend and could result in the following: Loss of customers; Loss of employees; Increased dependency on suppliers; Supply issues; Reduced revenue base; Impairment of our assets; Increased operating costs; Material restructuring charges; and Loss of liquidity. As our revenue base continues to decline from our current operations, we may choose to exit or divest some or a substantial portion of our current operations to focus on new opportunities. Our management team continuously reviews and evaluates our product portfolio, operating structure and markets to determine the future viability of our existing products and market positions. We may determine that the infrastructure and expenses necessary to sustain an existing business or product offering is greater than the potential contribution margin that will be obtainable in the future. As a result, we may determine that it is in our interest to exit or divest such existing business or product offering. For example, in fiscal 2007, we decided not to invest further in our DSG business due to OEMs incorporating other connectivity technologies directly into their products, the increased level of competition entering the market and the complexities of the retail channel. As a result, we wound down the DSG business throughout fiscal 2007 and exited it at March 31, 2007. However, we may seek growth opportunities beyond those presented by our existing product lines by entering into strategic alliances, partnerships or acquisitions in order to scale our business, and we may not succeed in these efforts. We currently depend on a small number of large OEM customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and we have been unsuccessful in obtaining designs wins, which will prevent us from sustaining or growing our revenues from OEM customers. A small number of large OEMs have historically been responsible for a significant percentage of our revenues. However, we have failed to secure design wins from these OEM customers in connection with their new products, which will adversely affect our future revenues. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, a significant customer notified us that we did not receive design wins for our next generation serial products, which will have a significant negative impact on our revenues in future quarters. We have evaluated this portion of our business, and we are no longer pursuing future business from large OEM customers with our current product portfolio, as the future growth opportunities for our current products are limited. As a result, we expect the revenues obtained from large OEM customers to decline significantly in future periods. The impact of industry technology transitions and market acceptance of our new products may cause our revenues to continue to decline. We have experienced a significant decline in our revenues as the industry continues to transition from parallel to serial connectivity, as the revenues we generate from sales of our serial products has not grown at a fast enough rate to offset declines in sales of our parallel products. We expect this trend to continue in future periods. In addition, products that we may develop may not gain sufficient market acceptance to offset the decline in revenues from certain of our existing products or otherwise contribute significantly to revenues. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our revenues to continue to decline. We depend on a few key customers and the loss of any of them could significantly reduce our net revenues. Historically, a small number of our customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues, and we expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. For example, in fiscal 2008, IBM and Ingram Micro accounted for 34% and 11 % of our total net revenues, respectively, whereas in fiscal 2007, IBM and Dell accounted for 34% and 13% of our total net revenues, respectively. We believe that our major customers continually evaluate whether or not to purchase products from alternate or additional sources. Additionally, our customers' economic and market conditions frequently change. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that a major customer will not reduce, delay or eliminate its purchases from us, which would likely cause our revenues to decline. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, a significant customer notified us that we did not receive design wins for our next generation serial products, which will have a significant negative impact on our revenues in future quarters. As our revenues from our large OEM customers continue to decline, we will be dependent on our channel products and customers for future revenue growth. We do not carry credit insurance on our accounts receivables and any difficulty in collecting outstanding amounts due from our customers, particularly customers that place larger orders or experience financial difficulties, could adversely affect our revenues and our operating results. Because our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, we cannot assure you that these customers will continue to purchase quantities of our products at current levels, or at all. Our operations depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could affect the growth and success of our business. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate our executives, our principal engineers and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. In particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Competition for experienced management, technical, marketing and support personnel such as these remains intense. Each of these personnel is an "at- will" employee, and, as a result, these employees could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty and may seek employment with one or more of our competitors. Due to the general uncertainty regarding the outlook of our company, we have in the past implemented a retention plan in an effort to retain some of our key employees, and may do so again in the future. To the extent we do not implement a retention plan we may experience a higher level of attrition of our key employees. Furthermore, even if we do implement a retention plan, it may not have the desired effect of retaining our key employees. We must also continue to motivate all of our other employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to morale challenges posed by continued workforce reductions. The loss of any of our key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. In order to execute our strategies, we may enter into strategic alliances with, partner with, invest in or acquire companies with complementary or strategic products or technologies. Costs associated with these strategic alliances, investments or acquisitions may adversely affect our results of operations. This impact could be exacerbated if we are unable to integrate the acquired companies, products or technologies. We may pursue strategic transactions, partnerships, investments and acquisitions in order to scale our business as sales of our core parallel products continue to decline. These may include both strengthening our partnerships in silicon-based technology and broadening our silicon-based intellectual property to improve our business opportunities. In order to be successful in the strategic alliances, partnerships, investments or acquisitions that we may enter into or make, we must: Conduct strategic alliances, partnerships, investments or acquisitions that enhance our time to market with new products; Successfully prevail over competing bidders for target strategic alliances, partnerships, investments or acquisitions at an acceptable price; Invest in companies and technologies that contribute to the profitable growth of our business; Integrate acquired operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; Retain the key employees of the acquired operations; and Develop the capabilities necessary to exploit newly acquired technologies. The benefits of any strategic alliances, partnerships, investments or acquisitions may prove to be less than anticipated and may not outweigh the costs reported in our financial statements, and we may not obtain the operational leverage or realize the improvements we intend or desire with the actions we take. Completing any potential future strategic alliances, partnerships, investments or acquisitions could cause significant diversions of management time and resources and divert focus from the activities of our current operations. We may encounter difficulty in integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies into our operations or the acquired technology and rights into our services. We may also lack the experience or expertise in the new products and markets, which may impair the relationships with customers or suppliers of the acquired business. The acquisition of new operations may require us to develop additional internal controls to support these new operations. We may experience material deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of the addition of new operations or due to changes to our internal controls, which could have a material impact on our results of operations when corrected. Additionally, we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with these or other acquisitions, strategic alliances or investments, which could result in an adverse impact on our ability to develop or sustain the acquired business. If we acquire new businesses, products or technologies in the future, we may be required to assume warranty claims or other contingent liabilities, including liabilities unknown at the time of acquisition, and amortize significant amounts of other intangible assets and, over time, recognize significant charges for impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or other losses. If we consummate any potential future acquisitions in which the consideration consists of our common stock or other securities, our existing stockholders' ownership may be significantly diluted. If we proceed with any potential future acquisitions in which the consideration is cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. If we were to use a substantial portion of our available cash, we might need to repatriate cash from our subsidiaries, which may cause us to incur additional income taxes at a rate up to 40%, which is our blended (federal and state) statutory rate in the United States. In addition, we may be required to invest significant resources in order to perform under a strategic alliance or partnership, or to complete an acquisition or investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations, at least in the short-term, even if we believe the acquisition, strategic alliance or investment will benefit us in the long-term. If we are not successful in completing a strategic alliance or partnerships with or acquisition of companies with complementary or strategic products or technologies, our future growth may be hindered. In order to scale our operations relative to our cost basis, we may need to identify attractive strategic alliance, partnership or acquisition candidates and complete a transaction with them. If we fail to identify and complete a successful strategic alliance, partnership or acquisition, we expect that our revenues will continue to decline and we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we do not meet our expense reduction goals, we may have to continue to implement additional restructuring plans in order to reduce our operating costs. This may cause us to incur additional material restructuring charges and result in adverse effects on our employee capacities. We have implemented several restructuring plans to reduce our operating costs and recorded related restructuring charges of $6.3 million, $3.7 million and $10.4 million in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These restructuring plans primarily involved the reduction of our workforce and the closure of certain facilities, which included our manufacturing operations in Singapore in fiscal 2006. The goals of our restructuring plans that were implemented prior to fiscal 2006 were to support future growth opportunities, focus on investments that grow revenues and increase operating margins. Our recent goals involve better alignment of our cost structure with our anticipated revenue stream and improving our results of operations and cash flow. We have in the past not realized, and in the future may not realize, the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plans we initiated. To the extent that we do not meet our expense reduction goals, we may be required to implement further restructuring plans, which may lead us to incur material restructuring charges. Further, our restructuring plans could result in a potential adverse effect on employee capabilities that could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing technology markets in which we sell our products. Our dependence on new products may cause our net revenues to fluctuate or decline. Our future success significantly depends upon our completing and introducing enhanced and new products at competitive prices and performance levels in a timely manner. The success of new product introductions depends on several factors, including the following: Designing products to meet customer needs; Product costs; Timely completion and introduction of new product designs; Quality of new products; Differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; and Market acceptance of our products. Our product life cycles in each of our segments may be as brief as 12 months. As a result, we believe that we will continue to incur significant expenditures for research and development in the future. We may fail to identify new product opportunities and may not develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive, or our targeted customers may not select our products for design or integration into their products. The failure of any of our new product development efforts could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We have introduced RAID-enabled products based on the next generation SATA technology and delivered our products based on SAS technology to certain major customers for testing and integration. We will not succeed in generating significant revenues from our new SATA and SAS technology products if the market does not adapt to these new technologies, which would, over time, adversely affect our net revenues and operating results. If we lose the cooperation of other hardware and software producers whose products are integral to ours, our ability to sustain or grow our revenues could be adversely affected. We must design our products to operate effectively with a variety of hardware and software products supplied by other manufacturers, including the following: I/O and RAID ASICs; Microprocessors; Peripherals; Operating system software; Server motherboards; and Enclosures. We depend on significant cooperation from these manufacturers to achieve our design objectives and develop products that operate successfully with their products. These companies could, from time to time, elect to make it more difficult for us to design our products for successful operability with their products. For example, if one or more of these companies were to determine that as a result of competition or other factors, our products would not be broadly accepted by the markets we target, these companies may no longer work with us to plan for new products and new generations of our products, which would make it more difficult to introduce products on a timely basis or at all. Further, some of these companies might decide not to continue to offer products that are compatible with our technology and our markets could contract. If any of these events were to occur, our revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. The markets for all of our products are intensely competitive and are characterized by the following: Rapid technological advances; Frequent new product introductions; Evolving industry standards; and Price erosion. We must continue to enhance our products on a timely basis to keep pace with market demands. If we do not do so, or if our competition is more effective in developing products that meet the needs of our existing and potential customers, we may lose market share and not participate in the future growth of our target markets. Revenues for our SATA products sold to our OEM customers have declined and we expect these revenues to continue to decline, as our products are at the end of their life cycles and certain of our customers have moved to other suppliers to obtain next generation SATA technologies. We also expect a significant negative impact on our net revenues from our unified serial products in future quarters as a significant customer notified us in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 that we did not receive design wins for our next generation serial products. Our future revenue growth in our DPS segment remains largely dependent on the success of our new products addressing unified serial technologies and growing our market share in the channel. Our future revenue growth in our SSG segment remains largely dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products and our ability to expand our presence in the reseller channel. Our future operating results will also be influenced by our ability to participate in the development of the network storage market in which we face intense competition from other companies that are also focusing on networked storage products. If we experience an incremental decline in our revenues beyond the declines anticipated, and we are unable to effectively manage our inventory levels, we may be required to record additional inventory-related charges, which would adversely impact our gross margins. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to accomplish all of the following: Satisfy any growth in demand for our products; Make timely introductions of new products; Compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors; or Prevent price competition from eroding margins. We depend on the efforts of our distributors, which if reduced, could result in a loss of sales of our products in favor of competitive offerings. We derived approximately 50% of our revenues for fiscal 2008 from independent distributor and reseller channels. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our relationships with these distributors or resellers were to deteriorate or if the financial condition of these distributors or resellers were to decline. We continue to monitor and evaluate our distributors and may terminate distributor relationships to improve our product placement or improve distribution channels; however, the termination of a distributor may adversely affect our financial results in the short-term. Our distributors generally offer a diverse array of products from several different manufacturers. Accordingly, we are at risk that these distributors may give higher priority to selling products from other suppliers. A reduction in sales efforts by our current distributors could adversely affect our business and financial results. For example, some of our distributors threatened to stop selling our products or make pricing of our products non-competitive if we did not agree to absorb their costs to comply with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive with respect to our products. Our distributors build inventories in anticipation of future sales, and if such sales do not occur as rapidly as they anticipate, our distributors will decrease the size of their product orders. If we decrease our price protection or distributor-incentive programs, our distributors may also decrease their orders from us. In addition, we have from time to time taken actions to reduce levels of products at distributors and may do so in the future. These actions may affect our net revenues and negatively affect our financial results. We depend on contract manufacturers and subcontractors, and if they fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it could delay shipments of our products and result in the loss of customers or revenues and increased manufacturing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our results. We rely on contract manufacturers for manufacturing our products and subcontractors for the assembly and packaging of the integrated circuits included in our products. On December 23, 2005, we entered into a three-year contract manufacturing agreement with Sanmina-SCI, which expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. Under this agreement, Sanmina-SCI assumed manufacturing operations for the majority of our products. The transition of the manufacturing facilities did not go as well as we expected, as Sanmina-SCI experienced material shortages that impacted its ability to meet delivery commitments on a consistent basis, which negatively impacted our net revenues and operating results in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We continued to see an impact in our channel penetration in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2007 as a result of not meeting the demands in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. We must work closely with Sanmina-SCI to ensure that products are delivered on a timely basis. In addition, we must ensure that Sanmina-SCI continues to provide quality products. If Sanmina-SCI is unwilling or unable to meet our supply needs, including timely delivery and adherence to standard quality, we could lose customers or revenues and incur increased manufacturing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Due to the nature of this relationship, and the continuous changes in the prices of components and parts, we are in ongoing negotiations with Sanmina-SCI concerning product pricing. Any adverse outcome of future disputes concerning product pricing could adversely impact our gross margins. We have no long-term agreements with our assembly and packaging subcontractors. We also employ SMTC to manufacture certain ServeRAID products, SuperMicro and USI to manufacture certain systems products, and Amkor Technology and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering to final assemble and test operations related to our ASIC products. We cannot assure you that these subcontractors will continue to be able and willing to meet our requirements for these components or services. Any significant disruption in supplies from or degradation in the quality of components or services supplied by these contract manufacturers and subcontractors could delay shipments and result in the loss of customers or revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We currently purchase all of the finished production silicon wafers and other key components used in our products from suppliers, and if they fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and our product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. Independent foundries manufacture to our specifications all of the finished silicon wafers used for our products. We currently purchase finished production silicon wafers used in our products from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. In addition, we purchase some of our key components used in our products from sole-source suppliers. The manufacture of semiconductor devices and other components are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the following: The availability of raw materials; The availability of manufacturing capacity; Transition to smaller geometries of semiconductor devices; The level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment; Impurities in the materials used; and The performance of personnel and equipment. We cannot assure you that manufacturing problems may not occur in the future. A shortage of raw materials or production capacity could lead our suppliers to allocate available capacity to other customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers and other key components with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely deliveries would delay our production and our product shipments, and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We expect that our suppliers will continually seek to convert their processes for manufacturing wafers and key components to more advanced process technologies. Such conversions entail inherent technological risks that can affect yields and delivery times. If for any reason the suppliers we use are unable or unwilling to satisfy our wafer and other key component needs, we will be required to identify and qualify additional suppliers. Additional suppliers for wafers and other key components may be unavailable, may take significant amounts of time to qualify or may be unable to satisfy our requirements on a timely basis. Because our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, if demand for our customers' products declines or if our customers do not control their inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us or reduce their levels of purchases from us. The volume and timing of orders received during a quarter are difficult to forecast. Our customers generally order based on their forecasts and they frequently encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. If demand falls below such forecasts or if our customers do not control their inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us. Our customers have from time to time in the past canceled or rescheduled shipments previously ordered from us, and we cannot assure you that they will not do so in the future. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the demand for our products from certain OEM customers substantially declined from their initial forecasts, which adversely affected our operating results. As our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, we cannot assure you that these customers will continue to purchase quantities of our products at current levels, or at all. Historically, we have set our operating budget based on forecasts of future revenues because we do not have significant backlog. Because much of our operating budget is relatively fixed in the short-term, if revenues do not meet our expectations, then our financial results will be adversely affected. If we fail to adequately forecast demand for our products, we may incur excess product inventory costs and our financial results will be adversely affected. We have a three-year contract manufacturing agreement with Sanmina-SCI to manufacture a majority of our products, which expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. As the sales of our products are completed through standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, we provide our contract manufacturer forecasts based on anticipated future demand from our customers. To the extent that our customers' demands fall below their initial forecast and we are unable to sell the product to another customer, and because our purchase commitment lead time to manufacture products with the contract manufacturer is longer than the lead time for a customer to cancel or reschedule an order, we may be exposed to excess product inventory costs and our financial results will be adversely affected. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we incurred significant inventory-related charges of $7.8 million due to a significant decline in our revenue stream. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and are likely to continue to fluctuate, and if our future results are below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and are likely to vary significantly in the future, based on a number of factors related to our industry and the markets for our products. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate include those discussed in this Risk Factors section. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenues, and a large portion of our expenses, including facility costs and salaries, are fixed in the short term. As a result, lower than anticipated revenues for any reason could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Due to the factors summarized above, and the other risks described in this section, we believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results as an indication of our future performance. In the event that our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Adverse economic conditions in some markets may impact our business, which could result in: Reduced demand for our products; Increased price competition for our products; Increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; and Higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. Demand for our products would likely be negatively affected if demand in the server and network storage markets declines. It is difficult to predict future server sales growth, if any. In addition, other technologies may replace the technologies used in our existing products and the acceptance of our products using new technologies in the market may not be widespread, which could adversely affect our revenues. We may be subject to a higher effective tax rate that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and in the foreign taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation and is subject to audit and redetermination by the taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the following factors could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements: The jurisdiction in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; Changes in available tax credits; Changes in share-based compensation expense; Changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. The factors noted above may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We held approximately $95.7 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at our subsidiaries in Singapore and Cayman Islands at March 31, 2008. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we repatriated $360.6 million of cash from Singapore to the United States in connection with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 which provided a one-time deduction of 85% for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. If the amount repatriated does not qualify for the one-time deduction, we could incur additional income taxes at up to the United States Federal statutory rate of 35%, which would negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our reliance on industry standards and technological changes in the marketplace may cause our net revenues to fluctuate or decline. The computer industry is characterized by various, evolving standards and protocols. We design our products to conform to certain industry standards and protocols such as the following: Technologies: AFP ATA CIFS Fibre channel FTP HTTP IPsec iSCSI NFS PCI PCIe PCI-X RAID SAS SATA SCSI SMI-S Ultra DMA USB Operating Systems: Linux Macintosh Netware OS/2 UNIX Windows If user acceptance of these standards declines, or if new standards emerge, and if we do not anticipate these changes and develop new products, these changes could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business. We may from time to time be subject to various state, federal, and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. For example, the European Parliament enacted the Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, directive, which restricts the sale of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous substances, including lead. We recorded an excess inventory expense of $1.9 million in fiscal 2006 related to the transition of our products to comply with the RoHS directive. If any of our products that are designated to be RoHS compliant are deemed to be non-compliant, we may suffer a loss of revenues, be unable to sell affected products in certain markets or countries and be at a competitive disadvantage. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions and countries. If our products become non- compliant with the various environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. If we do not provide adequate support during our customers' design and development stage, or if we are competitors. Certain of our products are designed to meet our customers' specifications and, to the extent we are not able to meet these expectations in a timely manner or provide adequate support during our customers' design and development stage, our customers may choose to buy similar products from another company. If this were to occur, we may lose revenues and market share to our competitors. If there is a shortage of components used in our customers' products, our sales may decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. If our customers are unable to purchase certain components which are embedded into their products, their demand for our products may decline. In addition, we or our customers may be impacted by component shortages if components that comply with the RoHS directive are not available. Similar shortages of components used in our products or our customers' products could adversely affect our net revenues and financial results in future periods. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenues and gross margins. We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technologies, including both hardware and software. Software often contains "bugs" which can interfere with expected operations. We cannot assure you that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect our gross margins if the costs of remedying the problems exceed reserves established for that purpose. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, and withdrawal, at least temporarily, from a product or market segment, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, product reengineering expenses, and a material impact on revenues and gross margins. Our charter documents and Delaware law contain anti-takeover provisions that could prevent, discourage or delay a change in control or management, which may affect the price of our common stock. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include completing procedural requirements for stockholders holding 5% of voting shares to take action by written consent and restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. In addition, the indenture relating to the 3/4% Notes provides that in the event of certain changes in control, each holder of our 3/4% Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase such holder's 3/4% Notes at a price equal to the principal amount of the 3/4% Notes being purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. We are also subject to provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. These restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or management. Some of our products contain "open source" software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Some of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called "open source" licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, or GPL, GNU Lesser General Public License, or LGPL, the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License and the Apache License. Some of those licenses may require as a condition of the license that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating, or using the open source software, that we provide notices with our products, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of those open source licenses, we could be required to incur legal expenses in defending against such allegations, and if our defenses were not successful we could be enjoined from distribution of the products that contained the open source software and required to either make the source code for the open source software available, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software, or to remove the open source software from our products, which could disrupt our distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could under some of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any such open source licenses, we could also be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract for our past distribution of such open source software. Our international operations involve a number of political, economic and other risks that could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in certain countries, create local economic conditions that reduce demand for our products among our target markets and expose us to potential disruption in the supply of necessary components. Our international operations and sales are subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, and changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates. We maintain a research and development center in Bangalore, India, which we expanded in fiscal 2007. Many of our subcontractors are primarily located in Asia and we have sales offices and customers located throughout Europe, Japan and other countries. In addition, because our primary wafer supplier, TSMC, is located in Taiwan, we may be subject to certain risks resulting from political instability in Taiwan, including conflicts between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. These and other international risks could result in the creation of political or other non-economic barriers to our being able to sell our products in certain countries, create local economic conditions that reduce demand for our products among our target markets, expose us to potential disruption in the supply of necessary components or otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively. In addition, the operations of our remote locations are subject to management oversight and control. If our business practices and corporate controls are not adhered to worldwide, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties to transport our products. We rely on independent freight forwarders to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers. Any transport or delivery problems because of their errors, or because of unforeseen interruptions in their activities due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters and accidents, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making estimates and assumptions, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. For example, we have identified key accounting estimates in our Critical Accounting Policies in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which include revenue recognition, inventory, goodwill, stock-based compensation and income taxes. Furthermore, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies essential to preparing our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures. Although we believe that our judgments and estimates are appropriate and correct, actual future results may differ materially from our estimates. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete effectively. Although we actively maintain and defend our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Asia and Europe, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations outside of the United States and sell to a worldwide customer base, we are more dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property in international environments than would be the case if a larger portion of our operations were domestic. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, which could harm our business and ability to compete effectively. We have from time to time discovered counterfeit copies of our products being manufactured or sold by others. Although we have programs to detect and deter the counterfeiting of our products, significant availability of counterfeit products could reduce our revenues and damage our reputation and goodwill with customers. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us, which may be expensive to defend and could divert our resources. From time to time, third parties assert exclusive patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to our key technologies, and we expect to continue to receive such claims in the future. The risks of receiving additional claims from third parties may be increased in periods when we begin to offer product lines employing new technologies relative to our existing products. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert other infringement claims against us, directly or indirectly, in the future, that assertions by third parties will not result in costly litigation or that we would prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed intellectual property from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. These claims may be asserted in respect of intellectual property that we own or that we license from others. In addition to claims brought against us by third parties, we may also bring litigation against others to protect our rights. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources and management time and attention, and could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may be required to pay additional federal income taxes which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. We were previously subject to IRS audits for our fiscal years 1994 through 2003. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we reached resolution with the United States taxing authorities relating to those fiscal years. However, our tax provision continues to reflect judgment and estimation regarding components of the settlement such as interest calculations and the application of the settlements to state and local taxing jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our condensed consolidated financial statements and may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The IRS is currently auditing our Federal income tax returns for the fiscal 2004 through 2006 audit cycle. We believe that we have provided sufficient tax provisions for these years and that the ultimate outcome of the IRS audits will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations in future periods. However, we cannot predict with certainty how these matters will be resolved and whether we will be required to make additional tax payments. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. For example, upon our adoption of FIN 48 on April 1, 2007, we revised our policy in conformity with the liability classification requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109," or FIN 48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax positions. This interpretation requires that we recognize in our financial statements the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not to be sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. At March 31, 2008 we had $4.4 million in "Other long-term liabilities" for uncertain tax positions related to FIN 48 and we continue to recognize interest expense for and or penalties related to these uncertain tax positions in the Consolidated Statement of Operations within "Provision for (benefit from) income taxes". We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. From time to time we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention, and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our exposures have related to non-dollar- denominated operating expenses in Europe and Asia. We began Euro-denominated sales to our distribution customers in the European Union in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement. We hold minority interests in privately held venture funds, and if these venture funds face financial difficulties in their operations, our investments could be impaired. We continue to hold minority interests in privately held venture funds. At March 31, 2008, the carrying value of such investments aggregated $1.7 million. These investments are inherently risky because these venture funds invest in companies that may still be in the development stage or depend on third parties for financing to support their ongoing operations. In addition, the markets for the technologies or products of these companies are typically in the early stages and may never develop. If these companies do not have adequate cash funding to support their operations, or if they encounter difficulties developing their technologies or products, the venture funds' investments in these companies may be impaired, which in turn, could result in impairment of our investment in these venture funds. For example, in fiscal 2007, we recorded a charge of $0.9 million relating to other-than-temporary decline in value of a minority investment. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we devote resources to respond to their requirements. In particular, we incurred additional administrative expense to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the NASDAQ Global Market, on which our common stock is listed, has also adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and may continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We also expect these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficultly attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our business. Internal control deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge. Over time we may identify and correct deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, where and when appropriate, report on the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses. However, the internal control procedures can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that deficiencies or weaknesses are identified. Deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge, and the identification and corrections of these deficiencies or weaknesses could have a material impact on our results of operations. Internal control issues that appear minor now may later become material weaknesses. We are required to publicly report on deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that meet a materiality standard as required by law and related regulations and interpretations. Management may, at a point in time, accurately categorize a deficiency or weakness as immaterial or minor and therefore not be required to publicly report such deficiency or weakness. Such determination, however, does not preclude a change in circumstances such that the deficiency or weakness could, at a later time, become a material weakness that could have a material impact on our results of operations. We may encounter natural disasters, which could cause disruption to our employees or interrupt the manufacturing process for our products. Our operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters are located in California, near major earthquake faults. Additionally, our primary wafer supplier, TSMC, is located in Taiwan, which has experienced significant earthquakes in the past. A severe earthquake could cause disruption to our employees or interrupt the manufacturing process, which could affect TSMC's ability to supply wafers to us, which would negatively affect our business and financial results. The ultimate impact on us and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our net revenues and financial condition and our costs and expenses could be significantly impacted in the event of a major earthquake. Manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, as a company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. We may experience significant fluctuations in our stock price, which may, in turn, significantly affect the trading price of our convertible notes. Our stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of quarterly variations in our operating results, the published expectations of securities analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. In addition, the price of our securities may also be affected by general global, economic and market conditions and the cost of operations in one or more of our product markets. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the price or our securities, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in the price of our common stock during any given period of time. These fluctuations in our stock price also impact the price of our outstanding 3/4% Notes, and the likelihood of the 3/4% Notes being converted into our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 