Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our results of operations and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We may be considered a “shell company” under federal securities laws and may become subject to more stringent reporting requirements. Under Rule 405 of the Securities Act and Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, a shell company is defined as an entity that has no or nominal operations and either (a) no or nominal assets; (b) assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents; or (c) assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash 6 Table of Contents equivalents and nominal other assets. Depending on our future activities and operations, we may be deemed a “shell company” under the federal securities laws and regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules prohibit the use of a Form S-8 for the registration of shares under equity incentive plans by a shell company and require a shell company to file a Form 8-K to report the same type of information that would be required if it were filing to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act whenever the shell company is reporting the event that caused it to cease being a shell company. Being considered a shell company may adversely impact our ability to offer our stock to officers, directors and consultants, and thereby make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals to perform services for us, and would likely increase the costs of registration compliance following the completion of a business combination. Depending on our future activities and operations, we may be deemed an investment company, which could impose on us burdensome compliance requirements and restrict our activities, which may make it difficult for us to complete future business combinations or acquisitions. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, requires registration, as an investment company, of companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. Generally, companies may be deemed investment companies under the Investment Company Act if they are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or they own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets. Depending on our future activities and operations, we may become subject to the Investment Company Act. While Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act provides an exemption that allows companies that may be deemed investment companies, but have a bona fide intent to engage primarily in a business other than that of investing in securities up to one year to engage in such other business activity, we may not qualify for this or any other exemption under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of and custodial requirements for holding our investments; and • restrictions on our issuance of securities, which we may use as consideration in a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. If we become subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional costs and expenses. There can be no assurance that we will not be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act or that we will qualify for the exemption under Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Our common stock may become a “penny stock” pursuant to Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are defined as equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 per share, with certain exemptions. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to purchase or sale of a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver to the customer a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks associated with the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market of a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. 7 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business and investment opportunities. We are exploring strategic alternatives and seeking to identify new business acquisition opportunities in which we may utilize our NOLs. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and products or services of the acquired companies, the expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent integration of operations and products or services and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify, complete or integrate any future acquisitions or investments or that completed acquisitions or investments will contribute favorably to our operations and future financial condition. If we are unable to identify strategic alternatives or new business acquisition opportunities, we may continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows, and our results of operations and stock price may suffer. Our stockholders may be subject to the broad discretion of management and our Board of Directors. We have limited operating assets, and our business strategy involves identifying new business and investment opportunities. Our stockholders may not have an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any such proposed transactions or investments. As a result, our stockholders may depend on the broad discretion and judgment of management and our Board of Directors in connection with the application of our capital and the selection of acquisition or investment targets. There can be no assurance that determinations ultimately made by us will permit us to achieve profitable operations. We may incur significant costs in connection with our evaluation of new business opportunities and suitable acquisition candidates. Our management intends to identify, analyze and evaluate potential new business opportunities, including possible acquisition and merger candidates. We may incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses, as part of these efforts. Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we cannot give any assurance that we will identify an appropriate new business opportunity, or any acquisition opportunity, in the near term, or at all. Failure to successfully identify and enter into a new line of business or identify possible acquisition candidates could cause our stock price to decline. We expect to actively pursue new lines of business operations and to explore all strategic alternatives to maximize stockholder value going forward, including deploying the proceeds from the sale of our DPS Business and our other assets in seeking business acquisition opportunities and other actions to redeploy our capital, while we manage our remaining operations. In relation to pursuing such strategic alternatives and new business acquisition opportunities, our stock price may decline due to any or all of the following potential occurrences: • we may not be able to identify a profitable new line of business or deploy successfully our resources to operate profitably in such line of business; • we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates or may not be able to acquire suitable candidates within the limits of our financial resources; • we may not be able to effectively utilize our existing NOLs to offset future earnings; • we may have difficulty retaining our key remaining employees or employees of acquired businesses; and • we may have difficulty retaining our Board of Directors or attracting suitable qualified candidates should a current director resign. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to our stockholders and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. Our current primary business strategy is to make acquisitions. While we may make acquisition(s) in whole or in part with cash, as part of such strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisition(s), which could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration, our existing stockholders’ equity interest may be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated 8 Table of Contents acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may also issue common stock in the future for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes, including in connection with financings. We will likely have no operating history in our new line of business, which is yet to be determined, and therefore we will be subject to the risks inherent in establishing a new business. We have not identified what our new line or lines of business will be and, therefore, we cannot fully describe the specific risks presented by such business. It is likely that we will have had no operating history in the new line of business, and it is possible that any company we may acquire will have a limited operating history in its business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations will generate operating or net income, and as such our success will be subject to the risks, expenses, difficulties and delays inherent in establishing a new line of business. The ultimate success of such new business cannot be assured. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us, which may be expensive to defend and could divert our resources. From time to time, third parties assert exclusive patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that were formerly key to our business, including businesses that we wound down or sold, and we expect to continue to receive such claims in the future. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert other infringement claims against us, directly or indirectly, in the future, that assertions by third parties will not result in costly litigation or that we would prevail in such litigation. These claims may be asserted in respect of intellectual property that we own or formerly owned, or that we formerly licensed from others. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources and management time and attention, and could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims, including claims related to businesses that we wound down or sold, that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention, and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our NOLs. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain limits and adjustments. Based on current income tax rates, if fully utilized, our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide a benefit to us of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon our ability to comply with the rules relating to the preservation and use of NOLs and the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable new business opportunities and acquisition candidates that maximize our NOLs, and once identified, successfully becoming established in this new business line or consummating such an acquisition. Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOLs would be subject to an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change and we may be unable to use a significant portion or all of our NOLs to offset taxable income. The amount of NOLs that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS. The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOLs and our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred, and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit that the NOLs would provide us could be substantially reduced. 9 Table of Contents The cost-effective wind down of our operations depends on the efforts of our workforce, the loss of whom could affect the transformation and success of our business. To be successful in the efficient wind down of our operations, we must retain our remaining employees. Each of our employees is an “at-will” employee, and, as a result, any of our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. Therefore, we have implemented retention plans in an effort to retain these employees. The loss of any employees key to an effective wind down could have a significant impact on the success of the wind down for certain of our corporate matters. If the carrying value of our long-lived assets is not recoverable, an impairment loss must be recognized which would adversely affect our financial results. Certain events or changes in circumstances would require us to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of our long-lived assets. As a result of our decision to wind down our Aristos Business in June 2010, and in anticipation of putting our building up for sale after completion of our final shipments to our customers through the end of September 2010, we evaluated the carrying value of our long-lived assets at July 2, 2010 and determined that the carrying value of such assets may not be fully recoverable. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $10.2 million in the Transition Period to write off our intangible assets and reduce the carrying value of our property and equipment, net, to the estimated fair value, which was based on the market approach and considered the perspective of market participants using or exchanging our long-lived assets. During the Transition Period, we put our building up for sale and reclassified the carrying value of $6.0 million from “Property and equipment, net,” to “Assets held for sale” on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. While classified as assets held for sale, we may need to reassess the fair value of the building at each of our reporting periods and determine whether the carrying value is recoverable. If the carrying value is not deemed to be recoverable based on current market conditions, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for our long-lived assets in the future. In addition, if certain events or changes in circumstances arise, such as being unable to sell our building within one year, we may need to reclassify the building from “assets held for sale” to “assets held and used,” which may require us to record a cumulative catch-up on the depreciable asset, which may have a material impact on our operating results in the future. We hold non-controlling interests in privately held venture funds, and if these venture funds face financial difficulties in their operations, our investments could be impaired. We continue to hold non-controlling interests in privately held venture funds. At December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2010, the carrying value of such investments aggregated $1.2 million at each date. These investments are inherently risky because these venture funds invest in companies that may still be in the development stage or depend on third parties for financing to support their ongoing operations. In addition, the markets for the technologies or products of these companies are typically in the early stages and may never develop. If these companies do not have adequate cash funding to support their operations, or if they encounter difficulties developing their technologies or products, the venture funds’ investments in these companies may be impaired, which in turn, could result in impairment of our investment in these venture funds. For example, in fiscal 2009, the value of our non-controlling interest in privately held venture funds declined, resulting in a recorded charge of $0.4 million. The carrying value of these investments is based on quarterly statements we receive from the funds. The statements are generally received one quarter in arrears, as more timely valuations are not practical. The statements reflect the net asset value, which we use to determine the fair value for these investments, which (a) do not have a readily determinable fair value and (b) either have the attributes of an investment company or prepare their financial statements consistent with the measurement principles of an investment company. The assumptions we use, due to lack of observable inputs, may impact the fair value of these equity investments in future periods. While we have seen some improvement in global economic conditions, any adverse changes in equity investments and current market conditions may require us to record an impairment charge against all or a portion of the investments in the future. Such an action would adversely affect our financial results. We may sustain losses in our investment portfolio due to adverse changes in the global credit markets. Global economic conditions have been challenged in the past by slowing growth and the sub-prime debt devaluation crisis, causing worldwide liquidity and credit concerns. While the liquidity and credit concerns have passed and we have seen some improvement in global economic conditions, any adverse change in global economic conditions may adversely impact our financial results. A substantial portion of our assets consists of 10 Table of Contents investments in marketable securities that we hold as available-for-sale and we mark them to market. While there has been a decline in the trading values of certain of the securities in which we have invested, we have not recognized a material loss on our securities as the unrealized losses incurred were not deemed to be other-than-temporary. We expect to realize the full value of all our marketable securities upon maturity or sale, as we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until the full value is realized. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, which may require us to record an impairment charge in the future that could adversely impact our financial results. If the financial institutions that maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities experience financial difficulties, which is more likely in the current weakened state of the economy, our cash balances may be adversely impacted. We maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with certain financial institutions in which our balances exceed the limits that are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. If the underlying financial institutions fail or other adverse conditions occur in the financial markets, our cash balances may be impacted. We may be required to pay additional income taxes, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. Our tax provision continues to reflect judgment and estimation regarding components of the settlement such as interest calculations and the application of the settlements to foreign, state and local taxing jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. In fiscal 2009, the IRS concluded its audit of our federal income tax returns for the fiscal 2004 through 2006 audit cycle. The IRS issued a No Change Report indicating no change to our tax liability; however, the IRS continues to have the ability to adjust tax attributes relating to these years in subsequent audits. We believe that we have provided sufficient tax provisions for these years and that the ultimate outcome of any future IRS audits that include the tax attributes will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations in future periods. While the tax authorities in the foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore, in which we operate or formerly operated continue to audit our tax returns for fiscal years subsequent to 1999, the potential outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in material tax provisions or additional tax payments in future periods. We may be subject to a higher effective tax rate that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States, Singapore and other foreign taxing jurisdictions in which we operated or formerly operated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation and is subject to audit and redetermination by the taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the following factors could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements: • the jurisdiction in which profits were determined to be earned and taxed; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States, Singapore or other foreign taxing jurisdictions or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. The factors noted above may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 11 Table of Contents Our delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market may decrease the liquidity of our common stock and decrease our ability to obtain equity funding. On July 27, 2010, we received a letter from the staff of the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department informing us that it believes that we no longer have an operating business and are a “public shell,” and as such no longer meet the NASDAQ’s listing requirements. As a result of such determination, our shares were delisted from The NASDAQ Global Markets at the opening of business on August 5, 2010, and on the same date, commenced trading on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Services, or the Pink Sheets. Broker-dealers often decline to trade stock in The Pink Sheets given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater than with stocks listed on national securities exchanges. Consequently, selling our common stock may be difficult because smaller quantities of shares may be bought and sold, transactions may be delayed and securities analyst and news media coverage of our Company may be reduced. These factors may result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock, lower trading volume and negatively impact our ability to obtain equity funding, if needed. If actual results or events differ materially from those contemplated by us in making estimates and assumptions, our reported financial condition and results of operations for future periods could be materially affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. For example, we have identified key accounting estimates in our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Transition Report on Form 10-K, which include fair value measurements, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, income taxes, revenue recognition and inventory. Furthermore, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Transition Report on Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies essential to preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures. Although we believe that our judgments and estimates are appropriate and correct, actual future results may differ materially from our estimates. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse effects on our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we devote resources to respond to their requirements. We incurred and will continue to incur additional administrative expense to implement and maintain Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. With the recently passed Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we expect we will continue to increase the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We also expect these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Internal control deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge. Over time, we may identify and correct deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, where and when appropriate, report on the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses. However, the internal control procedures can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that deficiencies or weaknesses are identified. Deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge, and the 12 Table of Contents identification and corrections of these deficiencies or weaknesses could have a material impact on our results of operations. Internal control issues that appear minor now may later become material weaknesses. We are required to publicly report on deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that meet a materiality standard as required by law and related regulations and interpretations. Management may, at a point in time, accurately categorize a deficiency or weakness as immaterial or minor and therefore not be required to publicly report such deficiency or weakness. Such determination, however, does not preclude a change in circumstances such that the deficiency or weakness could, at a later time, become a material weakness that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, as a company with headquarters and operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 