Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our results of operations and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our stock could decline. Risks Associated with our General Corporate Operations and Capital Redeployment Our inability to control the inherent risks of acquiring and integrating businesses could adversely affect our operations. Acquisitions are a key element of our business strategy. We may not be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on favorable terms in the future. We may be required to issue equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, which could result in dilution of stockholders. Acquisitions may not perform as expected when the acquisition was made and may be dilutive to our overall operating results. We face additional acquisition risks, such as: · retaining and attracting key employees; · retaining and attracting new customers; · increased administrative burden; · developing our sales and marketing capabilities; · managing our growth effectively; · integrating operations; · operating a new line of business; and · increased logistical problems common to large, expansive operations. If we fail to manage these acquisition risks successfully, our business could be harmed. Our stockholders may be subject to the broad discretion of management and our Board of Directors. As we continue to identify new businesses and investment opportunities, our stockholders may not have an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any proposed transactions or investments. As a result, our stockholders may depend on the broad discretion and judgment of management and our Board of Directors in connection with the application of our capital and the selection of acquisition or investment targets. There can be no assurance that determinations ultimately made by us will permit us to achieve profitable operations. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to our stockholders and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. Our current primary business strategy is to make acquisitions. While we may make acquisition(s) in whole or in part with cash, as part of such strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisition(s), which could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration, our existing stockholders’ equity interest may be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may also issue common stock in the future for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes, including in connection with financings. Depending on our future activities and operations, we may be deemed an investment company, which could impose on us burdensome compliance requirements and restrict our activities, and may make it difficult for us to complete future business combinations or acquisitions. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, (the “Investment Company Act”) requires registration, as an investment company, of companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. Generally, companies may be deemed investment companies under the Investment Company Act if they are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or they own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets. Depending on our future activities and operations, we may become subject to the Investment Company Act. While Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act provides an exemption that allows companies that may be deemed investment companies, but have a bona fide intent to engage primarily in a business other than that of investing in securities up to one year to engage in such other business activity, we may not qualify for this or any other exemption under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete business combination, including restrictions on the nature of and custodial requirements for holding our investments and restrictions on our issuance of securities, which we may use as consideration in a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. 4 If we become subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional costs and expenses. There can be no assurance that we will not be deemed an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act or that we will qualify for the exemption under Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act. We may sustain losses in our investment portfolio due to adverse changes in the global credit markets. Global economic conditions have been challenged in the past by slowing growth and the sub-prime debt devaluation crisis, causing worldwide liquidity and credit concerns. More recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain European economies and thereby increased global economic uncertainties. An adverse change in global economic conditions may adversely impact our financial results. A substantial portion of our assets consists of investments in marketable securities that we hold as available-for-sale and we mark them to market. While there has been a decline in the trading values of certain of the securities in which we have invested, we have not recognized a material loss on our securities as the unrealized losses incurred were deemed to be temporary. We expect to realize the full value of all our marketable securities upon maturity or sale, as we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until the full value is realized. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, which may require us to record an impairment charge in the future that could adversely impact our financial results. If the financial institutions that maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities experience financial difficulties, which is more likely during a weakened state of the economy, our cash balances may be adversely impacted. We maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with certain financial institutions in which our balances exceed the limits that are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. If the underlying financial institutions fail or other adverse conditions occur in the financial markets, our cash balances may be impacted. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating losses (“NOLs”). NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain limits and adjustments. Based on current income tax rates, if fully utilized, our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide a benefit to us of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon our ability to comply with the rules relating to the preservation and use of NOLs and the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable new business opportunities and acquisition candidates that maximize our NOLs, and once identified, successfully becoming established in this new business line or consummating such an acquisition. Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOLs would be subject to an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change and we may be unable to use a significant portion or all of our NOLs to offset taxable income. We have adopted a tax benefits preservation plan and filed an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation that restricts certain transfers of our common stock with the intention of reducing the likelihood of an ownership change. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will be effective in deterring or preventing all transfers of our common stock that could result in such an ownership change. The amount of NOLs that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS. The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOLs and our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred, and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit that the NOLs would provide us could be substantially reduced. We may be required to pay additional income taxes, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. Our tax provision continues to reflect judgment and estimation regarding components of the settlement such as interest calculations and the application of the settlements to foreign, state and local taxing jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While the tax authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which we formerly operated continue to audit our tax returns for fiscal years subsequent to 1999, the potential outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in material tax provisions or additional tax payments in future periods. We may be subject to a higher effective tax rate that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States, Singapore and other foreign taxing jurisdictions in which we formerly operated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation and is subject to audit and redetermination by the taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the following factors could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than tax amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements: · the jurisdiction in which profits were determined to be earned and taxed; 5 · adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; · changes in available tax credits; · changes in share-based compensation expense; · changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the United States, Singapore or other foreign taxing jurisdictions or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and · the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. The factors noted above may cause a higher effective tax rate that could materially affect our income tax provision, results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims, including claims related to businesses that we wound down or sold, that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention, and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Internal control issues that appear minor now may later become material weaknesses. We are required to publicly report on deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that meet a materiality standard as required by law and related regulations and interpretations. Management may, at a point in time, accurately categorize a deficiency or weakness as immaterial or minor and therefore not be required to publicly report such deficiency or weakness. Such determination, however, does not preclude a change in circumstances such that the deficiency or weakness could, at a later time, become a material weakness that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, as a company with headquarters and operations located in the United States, we may be impacted by actions against the United States. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including our property and equipment, indefinite-lived intangible assets, and goodwill for impairment. In performing these assessments, we project future cash flows on a discounted basis for goodwill, and on an undiscounted basis for other long-lived assets, and compare these cash flows to the carrying amount of the related assets. These cash flow projections are based on our current operating plans, estimates and judgmental assumptions. We perform the assessment of potential impairment on our goodwill, and indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually, or more often if events and circumstances warrant. We perform the assessment of potential impairment for our property and equipment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable due to various external or internal factors. If we determine that our estimates of future cash flows were inaccurate or our actual results are materially different from what we have predicted, we could record impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to the Business of our Segments Our oilfield services business depends on the oil and gas industry and particularly on the activity level of the North American oil and gas industry. Our markets may be adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to commit operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in North America. Weakness in oil and natural gas prices, or our customers’ perceptions that oil and natural gas prices will decrease in the future, could result in a reduction in the utilization of our equipment and result in lower revenues or rates for our services. Our customers’ willingness to undertake these activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by many factors over which we have no control, including: · the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including current natural gas storage capacity and usage; · the level of prices and expectations about future prices of oil and natural gas; · the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; · the expected rates of declining current production; · the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves; · available pipeline and other transportation capacity; · inclement weather conditions can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area; · domestic and worldwide economic conditions; 6 · political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries; · technical advances affecting energy consumption; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the access to and cost of capital for oil and natural gas producers; and · merger and divesture activity among oil and natural gas producers. The level of oil and natural gas exploration and production activity in the United States is volatile. Steel Energy has a significant concentration of operations in North Dakota and Montana resulting from the development of the Bakken Shale Formation. Our operations will be particularly affected by the level of drilling and production in the Bakken Shale Formation. A reduction in the activity levels of our customers could cause a decline in the demand for our services and may adversely affect the prices that we can charge or collect for our services. In addition, any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and natural gas prices would likely affect oil and natural gas production levels and, therefore, would affect demand for the services we provide. A material decline in oil and natural gas prices or drilling activity levels or sustained lower prices or activity levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, or a decrease in the development rate of reserves, in our market areas, whether due to increased governmental regulation, limitations on exploration and drilling activity or other factors, could also have a material adverse impact on our business, even in a stronger oil and natural gas price environment. We operate in a cyclical and volatile industry. Changes in current or anticipated future prices for crude oil and natural gas are a primary factor affecting spending and drilling activity, and decreases in spending and drilling activity can cause rapid and material declines in demand for our services. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our oilfield services operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, workover and well-servicing and pressure pumping industries, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of or damage to the wellbore or underground reservoir, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental and natural resources damage and damage to the property of others. Our sports-related operations are subject to the potential for injuries by participants in tournaments, classes and clinics. Accidents may occur, we may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities, and our insurance may prove inadequate in certain cases. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, insurance may be inadequate or insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future making insurance prohibitively expensive. Moreover, our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form or a deductible or self-insured retention. We may choose to increase the levels of deductibles (and thus assume a greater degree of risk) from time to time in order to minimize our overall costs. There is potential for excess capacity in the oilfield services industry. Because oil and natural gas prices and drilling activity are at high levels and service companies are seeing increasing demand for services and attractive returns on investments, oilfield service companies are ordering new equipment to expand their capacity. A growing supply of equipment may result in an increasingly competitive environment for oilfield service companies, which may lead to lower prices and utilization for our services that would adversely affect our business. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern our operations. Our oilfield services operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the handling and cleanup of waste materials, including toxic and hazardous wastes. Our sports-related businesses must also comply with laws and regulations regarding the safety of participants in tournaments and clinics. To comply with these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental authorities. While the cost of such compliance has not been significant in the past, new laws, regulations and enforcement policies could become more stringent and significantly increase our compliance costs or limit our future business opportunities, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. It is not possible to predict how new governmental mandates regarding the emission of greenhouse gases could affect our business; however, any such future laws or regulations could require our customers to devote potentially material amounts of capital or other resources in order to comply and increase their operating costs, which could result in decreased demand for our services. Such future laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and, to a lesser extent, orders to limit or cease certain operations. Certain environmental laws impose strict and/or joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. 7 Potential adoption of future state or federal laws or regulations surrounding the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil or natural gas wells and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers utilize hydraulic fracturing services during the life of a well. Hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations underground where water, sand and other additives are pumped under high pressure into the formation. Although we are not a provider of hydraulic fracturing services, many of our services complement the hydraulic fracturing process. Legislation that has been introduced in Congress to provide for broader federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing operations and the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process could be enacted. Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and is completing the process of drafting guidance documents related to this asserted regulatory authority. If additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed through the adoption of new laws and regulations, our customers’ business and operations could be subject to delays and increased operating and compliance costs, which could negatively impact the number of active wells in the marketplaces we serve. Therefore, the adoption of future federal, state or municipal laws regulating the hydraulic fracturing process could negatively impact our business. Changes in trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations. We operate trucks and other heavy equipment associated with many of our oilfield service offerings. We therefore are subject to regulation as a motor carrier by the United States Department of Transportation and by various state agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of state highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing and specifications and insurance requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations by requiring changes in fuel emission limits, the hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, limits on vehicle weight and size and other matters, including safety requirements. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Steel Energy business is heavily concentrated in North Dakota and Montana, where it could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather may include: · curtailment of services; · weather-related damage to facilities and equipment, resulting in suspension of operations; · inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products; and · increased downtime and loss of productivity. These constraints could reduce our revenues, delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Unusually warm winters may also adversely affect the demand for our oilfield services by decreasing the demand for natural gas. We may be unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers. Our oilfield services operations require personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. Additionally, there is intense competition for these workers in the North Dakota and Montana area where our Steel Energy business is concentrated. As a result of the volatility of the oilfield service industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment or better pay. Similarly, our CrossFit South Bay business requires specially trained and certified instructors. Our ability to be productive and profitable depends on our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. If we are unable to implement commercially competitive services and access commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. The market for our oilfield services is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better and more reliable performance and services. If we are not able to implement commercially competitive services and access commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Likewise, if our proprietary technologies, equipment and facilities, or work processes become obsolete, we may no longer be competitive, and our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and gas. Management cannot predict the impact of the changing demand for oil and gas services and products, and any major changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of one or more of our largest customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . Our oilfield services (“Steel Energy”) customer base is concentrated and loss of a significant customer could cause our revenue to decline substantially. For example, we had three customers comprising 10 or more percent of our revenues and our top 15 customers comprised approximately 89% of our Steel Energy revenues for the year ended December 31 2012. If a major customer decided not to continue to use our services, revenue could decline and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 8 Risks Relating to our Ownership and Management Structure Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman, Jack Howard, a member of our Board of Directors, and certain other officers and an additional director, through their affiliations with Steel Partners, the controller of a majority of our outstanding common stock, have the ability to exert significant influence over our operations. At December 31, 2012, SPH Group Holdings LLC (“SPHG Holdings”), SPH Group LLC (“SPHG”), Steel Partners Holdings L.P. (“Steel Holdings”) and Steel Partners Holdings GP Inc. (“Steel Holdings GP,” and collectively, with SPHG Holdings, SPHG and Steel Holdings, “Steel Partners”) beneficially owned approximately 51.2% of our outstanding common stock. Steel Holdings GP is the general partner of Steel Holdings, the managing member of SPHG and the manager of SPGH Holdings. Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman and President of a subsidiary of ours, serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Steel Holdings GP, and Jack Howard, a director and a Vice President of a subsidiary of ours, serves as President and a director of Steel Holdings GP. In their capacities as directors and senior executive officers of Steel Holdings GP, Messrs. Lichtenstein and Howard generally have the ability to determine the outcome of any action requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of our Board of Directors or the approval of amendments to our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and the approval of any proposed merger. The interests of Messrs. Lichtenstein and Howard, as well as Steel Partners in such matters may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in some respects. In addition, employees and affiliates of Steel Partners hold positions with us, including John Quicke, a member of our Board of Directors and our Interim President and Chief Executive Officer, Mark Zorko, our Chief Financial Officer, and Leonard McGill, General Counsel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 