Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business faces significant risks, including those described is this Item 1A. If any of the events or circumstances described below as possible risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks that we are not aware of or that we currently think are immaterial may also ultimately have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may be unable to identify and acquire new businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our long term growth. Acquisitions are a key element of our business strategy. We may not be able to identify and acquire acquisition candidates on acceptable terms. Our inability to identify and acquire new businesses on acceptable terms could have an adverse effect on our long-term growth.We may be unable to integrate new businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and long-term growth. We may not be able to properly integrate acquired businesses, which could result in such businesses not performing as expected when the acquisition was consummated and possibly being dilutive to our overall operating results. Our inability to properly integrate acquired businesses could result from, among other things, the following:•our failure to retain and attract key employees;•our failure to retain and attract new customers;•our failure to develop effective sales and marketing capabilities; and •our failure to properly operate new lines of business. Our inability to integrate new businesses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our long-term growth.Our stockholders may be subject to the broad discretion of management and the Board of Directors. As we continue to identify new businesses and investment opportunities, our stockholders may not have an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any proposed transactions or investments. As a result, our stockholders may depend on the broad discretion and judgment of management and our Board of Directors in connection with our deployment of capital and the 6selection of acquisition or investment targets. There can be no assurance that the determinations ultimately made will permit us to achieve and sustain profitable operations and maintain the value of the Company.We may issue shares of our common stock in the future, which could result in dilution to existing stockholders and have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. As part of our strategy to grow through acquisitions we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions and also may issue common stock to employees and contractors as compensation. Any such issuances of common stock will result in our existing stockholders’ equity interest being diluted. Such issuances of common stock will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be available for sale in the open market, and those individuals receiving shares of our common stock may be more likely to sell, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may be deemed an investment company, which could impose on us burdensome compliance requirements and restrict our activities. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), requires companies to register as an investment company if they are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading securities. Generally, companies may be deemed investment companies under the Investment Company Act if they are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or they own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets. Depending on our future activities and operations, we may become subject to the Investment Company Act. Although the Investment Company Act provides certain exemptions, we may not qualify for any of these exemptions. If we are deemed to be an investment company we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete business combinations, including restrictions on the nature of and custodial requirements for holding our investments and restrictions on our issuance of securities, which we may use as consideration in a business combination. In addition, if we are deemed to be an investing company we may have imposed upon us additional burdensome requirements, including the following:•having to register as an investment company;•adopting a specific form of corporate structure; and •having to comply with certain reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, and disclosure requirements.Such additional requirements would require us to incur additional costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to effectively carry out our business plan.We may sustain losses in our investment portfolio losses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. A substantial portion of our assets consists of investments in marketable securities that we classify as available-for-sale securities, which are adjusted to fair value each period. An adverse change in global economic conditions may result in a decline in the value of our marketable securities. We have not recognized declines in the value of marketable securities held since we have deemed such unrealized losses to be temporary. However, any such declines in value will be recognized as losses upon the sale of such securities or if such declines are deemed to be other than temporary. Any adverse changes in the financial markets and resulting declines in value of our marketable securities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.Our cash balances could be adversely affected by the instability of financial institutions. We maintain our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with certain financial institutions at which our balances exceed the limits that are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. There could be an impact on our cash balances if financial institutions at which we maintain our cash and investments experience financial difficulties, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may not be able to fully utilize our tax benefits, which could result in increased cash payments for taxes in future periods. Net operating losses (“NOLs”) may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and reduce the amount of cash paid for income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain limits and adjustments. If fully utilized our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide us with significant tax savings in future periods. Our ability to utilize these tax benefits in future years will depend upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income and to comply with the rules relating to the preservation and use of NOLs. The potential benefit of the NOLs and other carry-forwards may be limited or permanently lost as a result of the following:•our inability to generate sufficient taxable income in future years to use such benefits before they expire;•a change in control of the Company that would trigger limitations on the amount taxable income in future years that may be offset by NOLs and other carry-forwards that existed prior to the change in control; and •examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities could reduce the amount of NOLs and other credit carry-forwards that are available for future years.7We maintain a full valuation allowance against our NOLs and other carry-forwards due to uncertainty regarding our ability to generate sufficient taxable income in future periods. Our inability to utilize the NOLs and other carry-forwards could result in increased cash payments for taxes in future periods.We may be liable for additional income taxes upon examination or audit by the taxing authorities. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions in which we formerly operated. Our tax provision reflects judgments and estimates, including settlements, that are subject to audit and redetermination by the various taxing authorities. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of these tax matters may differ materially from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The Energy business carries inherent risks that could result in significant litigation. From time to time we are subject to litigation or claims that arise in the normal course of business. While the results of such litigation matters and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. However, because of the nature and inherent uncertainties of litigation, should the outcome of these actions be unfavorable, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Internal controls weaknesses that are currently immaterial may become material in future periods. We have identified certain deficiencies or weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting as immaterial and therefore not requiring disclosure in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes in circumstances could result in such deficiencies or weaknesses becoming material, which could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and required public disclosure if the appropriate remediation action is not undertaken. A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. We also collect and store sensitive data, including confidential business information and personal data. These systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes, or other unforeseen events. In addition, security breaches of our systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers, or suppliers. Any such events could disrupt our operations, inhibit our ability to produce financial information, damage customer relationships and our reputation, and result in legal claims or proceedings, liability, or penalties under privacy laws, each of which could adversely affect our business and our financial statements. We may incur impairments charges related to our long-lived assets. We periodically evaluate the carrying value of our long-lived assets, including our property and equipment, identified intangible assets, and goodwill for impairment. In performing these assessments we rely on cash flow projections based on our current operating plans, estimates, and judgments. We could incur impairment charges if our actual results are materially different from such cash flow projections, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.We are heavily dependent on the oil and gas industry in North America. Our Energy business is dependent on our customers’ willingness to continue to explore for and produce oil and natural gas in North America, primarily in the Bakken and Permian basins. Factors affecting our customers’ willingness to continue to undertake exploration and production activities include the following:•the prices for oil and natural gas and our customers’ perceptions of such prices in the future;•the supply and demand for oil and natural gas;•the cost for our customers to conduct the necessary exploration and production activities;•the discovery of new oil and gas reserves;•the availability of pipelines and other means of transportation;•increased regulation of the means of transporting oil out of the Bakken basin by rail or road;•the availability and cost of capital;•production levels and geopolitical factors in other oil and gas producing countries;•the price and availability of alternative sources of energy; and •weather conditions. 8The adverse effects of any of these factors could result in a reduction in our customers’ exploration efforts, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to potential unrecoverable losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Energy business is subject to many hazards inherent in the industry, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of or damage to the wellbore or underground reservoir, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage, or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental and natural resources damage, and damage to the property of others. We may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities for such hazards, and our insurance may not provide adequate coverage in certain instances. The occurrence of an event not fully indemnified or insured, or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its financial obligations, and resulting claims and litigation, could result in substantial losses and have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We could face increased competition in our Energy business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. High oil and natural gas prices have resulted in an increase in drilling activity, increasing the demand for oilfield services. Oilfield service companies are purchasing new equipment to expand their capacity to take advantage of this increased activity, which could result in an increasingly competitive environment. This increased competition could lead to declines in our prices and utilization, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We could incur significant costs in the future to maintain regulatory compliance. Our Energy and Sports businesses are currently subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations pertaining to worker safety, the handling of hazardous materials, transportation standards, and the environment, and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, including any regarding the emission of greenhouse gases. We may be required to obtain and maintain permits, approvals, and certificates from various authorities and incur other capital and operational costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the assessment of penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, or orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain such laws impose joint and several liability that could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. While the cost of such compliance has not been significant in the past, new laws, regulations, and enforcement policies could become more stringent and significantly increase our compliance costs or limit our future business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could have an adverse impact on our customers. Many of our customers utilize hydraulic fracturing services, which is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations underground where water, sand, and other additives are pumped under high pressure into the formation. Although we are not a provider of hydraulic fracturing services, many of our services complement the hydraulic fracturing process. Legislation that has been introduced in Congress to provide for broader federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing operations and the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process could be enacted. Additionally, the United States Environmental Protection Agency has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and is completing the process of drafting guidance documents related to this asserted regulatory authority. Our customers’ operations could be adversely affected if additional regulation or permitting requirements were to be required for hydraulic fracturing activities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Severe weather conditions could have an adverse effect on our customers and our ability to provide our services. Our Energy business is heavily concentrated in North Dakota and Montana, where severe weather conditions could result a curtailment of our customers’ service requirements, damage to our facilities and equipment resulting in increased repair costs and a suspension of our operations, our inability to deliver services, and an overall decline in productivity, all of which could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, inclement weather could result in the cancellation of events and tournaments in our Sports business during peak seasons, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We may not be able to attract and retain qualified workers, which could have a significant adverse effect on our Energy business. Our Energy business operations require personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work, and there is intense competition for these workers in the Bakken basin where our Energy business is concentrated. As a result workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment or better pay. Our inability to attract and retain such qualified workers could have an adverse effect on our productivity, the quality of our service offerings, and our ability to expand our operations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.9We may not be able to implement commercially competitive services and products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The market for our Energy business is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better and more reliable performance and services. Our inability to implement commercially competitive services and access commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology or our existing technologies and work processes becoming obsolete could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The customer base of our Energy business is concentrated. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Continental Resources and XTO Energy represented 17.0% and 10.5%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues, and the fifteen largest customers in the Energy business represented approximately 80.6% of our consolidated revenues. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The beneficial ownership of our common stock by Steel Partners provides it with significant influence, and the common management shared with other Steel Partners’ entities may result in the interests of Steel Partners differing from the interests of other shareholders. At December 31, 2013, SPH Group Holdings LLC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Steel Partners, beneficially owned approximately 55.1% of our outstanding common stock. Warren G. Lichtenstein, the chairman of our board and chief executive of our Sports business, serves as executive chairman of the general partner of Steel Partners; Jack Howard, a director and our principal executive officer, serves as President and a director of the general partner of Steel Partners. In their capacities as directors and senior executive officers of the general partner of Steel Partners, Messrs. Lichtenstein and Howard generally have the ability to determine the outcome of any action requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of our Board of Directors, the approval of amendments to our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and the approval of any proposed merger. The interests of Messrs. Lichtenstein and Howard, as well as those of Steel Partners and its affiliates in such matters may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in some respects. In addition, employees and affiliates of Steel Partners hold positions with us, including John Quicke, a member of our Board of Directors and chief executive of our Energy business, James F. McCabe, Jr., our chief financial officer, and Leonard McGill, our general counsel.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.