ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The investment performance of our common shares is affected by several material risk factors. These factors (summarized below) can affect our financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, you should be aware of these risk factors and how each may potentially affect your investment in our common stock. Merger Execution Risk. On October 25, 2010, the Company announced that it entered into a Merger Agreement with CBSI. In connection with the Merger Agreement, CBSI filed a securities registration statement on Form S-4 with the SEC on January 11, 2011, a first amendment on February 15, 2011 and a second amendment on February 17, 2011. The merger is expected to close during the second quarter of 2011. This merger will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in similar business combinations. These risks include, among other things: the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of ongoing business relationships, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and polici es, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. General Economic and Competitive Conditions. Regional and local economic factors including employment and unemployment conditions, population growth, and price and wage scale changes, may impact the demand for our products and services, the level of customer deposits, or credit status of our borrowers. National and international economic conditions including credit markets, equity markets, raw materials costs, energy prices, consumer demand, and consumer trends, may impact the demand for our commercial borrowers’ products and services, which, in turn, can affect our financial condition and results of operation. National, regional, and local competitive conditions can negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our existing competition may begin offering new products and services, change the price for existing products and services, or open new offices in direct competition with our offices. In addition, new competitors can establish a physical presence in our market or begin offering products and services through the Internet or other remote channels that compete directly with our products and services. All of these factors are dynamic and may affect the demand for our products and services, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Real Estate Market Conditions. At December 31, 2010, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 73.2% of the Bank’s loan portfolio. A prolonged depression in the value of residential and commercial real estate securing its loans could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Given our heavy reliance on real estate lending, this could have a significant adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Credit Risk. One of our main functions as a financial intermediary is to extend credit, in the form of loans, commitments and investments, to individuals, businesses, state, local and federal government and U.S. Government Sponsored Entities within and outside of our primary market area. The risk associated with these extensions of credit pose significant risks to earnings and capital that need to be controlled and monitored by management. Losses incurred by us due to the failure by borrowers to repay loans or other extensions of credit, and the reliance on customer information being correct in cases where it may not be, will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Performance of Large Borrowers. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent upon the credit worthiness and financial performance of our borrowers. The Bank has many borrowers or groups of related borrowers whose total indebtedness with the Bank exceeds $1.000 million. The financial performance of these borrowers is a material risk factor that may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses. The Bank’s management, under the control and supervision of the Board of Directors, continually monitors the credit status of the Bank’s loan portfolio. The adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is reviewed quarterly by the Board of Directors, and periodically by an independent loan review firm under the direction of the Bank’s Audit Committee, the OCC, and the Company’s external auditors. However, because the allowance for loan losses is an estimate of embedded losses and is based on 22-K Index management’s experience and assumptions, there is no certainty that the allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. Actual loan losses in excess of the allowance for loan losses would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Interest Rates and Capital Markets. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent upon the amount of the interest income we receive on our earning assets and the interest we pay for our funding and capital resources. Accordingly, changes in interest rates and capital markets can affect our financial condition and results of operations. Fraud Risk. Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of the Bank, an employee, a vendor, or members of the general public. A loss due to fraud that is determined not to be insured under our fidelity insurance coverage could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in Laws, Regulations, and Policies. Financial institutions are highly regulated companies and are subject to numerous laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or regulations, particularly at the federal and state level, may materially impact the business climate we operate within, which, in turn, may impact the economic return on our common shares, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in the Financial Condition of U.S. Government Agencies, U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises, and Local and State Governments. We invest substantially in debt instruments backed or issued by U.S. Government Agencies, U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises, and local and state governments. A deterioration of the credit standing of any of these issuers of debt may materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Financial Condition of New York State. The Company operates in the central and upstate regions of New York State. New York State is currently operating with significant budget deficits that have and are expected to continue to negatively affect the households, businesses and municipalities operating within the State. Many of the school districts, town and city governments and not-for-profit organizations who benefit from State funding to balance their operating budget or finance an infrastructure improvement are our customers. Reductions in funding from New York State to these entities can negatively impact the operations and credit-worthiness of these customers, and potentially, our results of operation, particularly if an investment s ecurity we hold, issued by a New York State municipality, were to be downgraded or the issuer defaulted on its debt payments. Actions of Regulatory Authorities. The Company and the Bank are subject to the supervision of several federal and state regulatory bodies. These regulatory bodies have authority to issue, change, and enforce rules and regulations including the authority to assess fines. Changes to these regulations may impact the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or the Bank. See Item 1 I. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional explanation regarding the regulations to which the Company and the Bank are subject. Changes in the Company’s Policies or Management. Our financial condition and results of operations depend upon the policies approved by the Board of Directors and the practices of management. Changes in our policies or management practices, particularly credit policies and practices of the Bank, may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Incidents Affecting Our Reputation. The demand for our products and services is influenced by our reputation and the reputation of our management and employees. Public incidents that negatively affect the reputation of the Company or the Bank, including, but not limited to, breaches in the security of customer information or unfair or deceptive practices, or violations of law may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or economic performance of the Company’s common stock. Technology Risk. We deploy various forms of technology to facilitate and process customer and internal transactions. In addition, we gather, store and summarize various forms of computer generated data to analyze the Company’s services, business processes and financial performance. Although we maintain various policies and procedures, including data back-up and recovery procedures to mitigate technology risk, in the event one of our systems were to fail it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Dividend Policy. The Company historically has paid a quarterly dividend to its common stockholders. A reduction or discontinuation of this practice could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Liquidity of the Company’s Common Shares. The Company’s common stock is lightly traded on the NYSE Amex. This condition may make it difficult for shareholders with large common stock ownership positions to sell or liquidate shares at a suitable price. 23-K Index Changes to the Markets or Exchanges On Which the Company’s Common Shares Are Traded. The Company’s common shares trade on the NYSE Amex. Changes to the NYSE Amex trading practices or systems, reputation or financial condition, or rules which govern trading on the NYSE Amex may impact our shareholders’ ability to buy or sell their common shares at a suitable price. Goodwill Impairment. Annually, we evaluate goodwill for impairment. In addition, if our common stock were to trade consistently below book value, or other triggering events were to occur, we would re-evaluate the amount of goodwill and any related impairment. If impairment is warranted, the amount would be recorded through the income statement as a reduction to current period earnings. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has not been subject to any comments by the SEC during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that remain unresolved. 