ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The investment performance of our common shares is affected by several material risk factors. These factors (summarized below) can affect our financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, you should be aware of these risk factors and how each may potentially affect your investment in our common stock. 20-K Index Global Financial Crisis. During 2008 there was a rapid deterioration in the financial condition of many large domestic and international commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies and U.S. government sponsored enterprises, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, due to a general collapse of the United States housing market and the value of the financial assets tied to those markets. Over the last several years there was significant growth in the level of sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgage loan originations in the United States. These loans were originated by mortgage banks and brokers, savings institutions and commercial banks. Some were sold into the secondary market, but all ultimately resided on the balance sheets of many large domestic and international commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies, causing a significant deterioration in their financial condition or in some cases their collapse. The rapid deterioration in the value of the financial assets held by these institutions caused the domestic and international credit market to seize, further exacerbating the financial crises and pushing many of the world’s economies into recession. This crisis has and is expected to continue to affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as potential returns to shareholders. A significant decline in the equity markets and the stock value of financial companies in general could negatively impact shareholder returns. A general decline in credit market conditions may limit our access to capital and borrowed funds. An increase in FDIC insurance premiums in 2009 and beyond is expected to increase our non-interest expense. The funded status of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan has and will continue to be affected by market conditions. The financial performance of our customers may weaken if the domestic and international recession persists for an extended period of time, which, in turn, could require additional provision for loan losses. The value of certain investment securities could become other than temporarily impaired, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Other General Economic and Competitive Conditions. Regional and local economic factors including employment and unemployment conditions, population growth, and price and wage scale changes, may impact the demand for our products and services, the level of customer deposits, or credit status of our borrowers. National and international economic conditions including credit markets, equity markets, raw materials costs, oil prices, consumer demand, and consumer trends, may impact the demand for our commercial borrower’s products and services, which, in turn, can affect our financial condition and results of operation. Although the national economy has slid into recession due to the global financial crisis, the central and upstate New York market place that we operate within has not experienced the rapid decline in housing prices experienced in other parts of the country. National, regional, and local competitive conditions can negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our existing competition may begin offering new products and services, change the price for existing products and services, or open a new office in direct competition with one of our offices. In addition, new competitors can establish a physical presence in our market or begin offering products and services through the Internet or other remote channels that compete directly with our products and services. All of these factors are dynamic and may affect the demand for our products and services, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Real Estate Market Conditions. At December 31, 2008, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 68.7% of the Bank’s loan portfolio. While the Bank is not a sub-prime lender, a prolonged depression in the value of residential and commercial real estate securing its loans could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Given our heavy reliance on real estate lending, this could have a significant adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Credit Risk. One of our main functions as a financial intermediary is to extend credit, in the form of loans, commitments and investments, to individuals, businesses, state, local and federal government and government sponsored entities within and outside of our primary market area. The risk associated with these extensions of credit pose significant risks to earnings and capital that need to be controlled and monitored by management. Losses incurred by us due to the failure by borrowers to repay loans or other extensions of credit will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Performance of Large Borrowers. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent upon the credit worthiness and financial performance of our borrowers. The Bank has many borrowers or groups of related borrowers whose total indebtedness with the Bank exceeds $1.0 million. The financial performance of these borrowers is a material risk factor that may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses. The Bank’s management, under the control and supervision of the Board of Directors, continually monitors the credit status of the Bank’s loan portfolio. The adequacy of the Allowance for Loan Losses is reviewed quarterly by the Board of Directors, and periodically by an independent loan review firm under the direction of the Bank’s Audit Committee, the Bank’s regulators, and the Company’s external auditors. However, because the Allowance for Loan Losses is an estimate of probable losses and is based on management’s experience and assumptions, there is no certainty that the Allowance for Loan Losses will be 21-K Index sufficient to cover actual loan losses. Actual loan losses in excess of the Allowance for Loan Losses would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Interest Rates and Capital Markets. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent upon the amount of the interest income we receive on our earning assets and the interest we pay for our funding and capital resources. Accordingly, changes in interest rates and capital markets can affect our financial condition and results of operations. Fraud Risk. Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of the Bank, an employee, a vendor, or members of the general public. A loss due to fraud that is determined not to be insured under our fidelity insurance coverage could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in Laws, Regulations, and Policies. Financial institutions are highly regulated companies and are subject to numerous laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or regulations, particularly at the federal and state level, may materially impact the business climate we operate within, which, in turn, may impact the economic return on our common shares, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in the Financial Condition of Government Agencies, Government Sponsored Enterprises, and Local and State Governments. We invest substantially in debt instruments backed or issued by U.S. Government Agencies, U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises, and local and state governments. A deterioration of the credit standing of any of these issuers of debt may materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Actions of Regulatory Authorities. The Company and the Bank are subject to the supervision of several federal and state regulatory bodies. These regulatory bodies have authority to issue, change, and enforce rules and regulations including the authority to assess fines. Changes to these regulations may impact the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or the Bank. See Item 1 I. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional explanation regarding the regulations to which the Company and the Bank are subject. Changes in the Company’s Policies or Management. Our financial condition and results of operations depend upon the policies approved by the Board of Directors and the practices of management. Changes in our policies or management practices, particularly credit policies and practices of the Bank, may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Incidents Affecting Our Reputation. The demand for our products and services is influenced by our reputation and the reputation of our management and employees. Public incidents that negatively affect the reputation of the Company or the Bank, including, but not limited to, breaches in the security of customer information or unfair or deceptive practices, or violations of law may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or economic performance of the Company’s common stock. Technology Risk. We deploy various forms of technology to facilitate and process customer and internal transactions. In addition, we gather, store and summarize various forms of computer generated data to analyze the Company’s services, business processes and financial performance. Although we maintain various policies and procedures, including data back-up and recovery procedures to mitigate technology risk, in the event one of our systems were to fail it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity of the Company’s Common Shares. The Company’s common stock is lightly traded on the NYSE Alternext U.S. This condition may make it difficult for shareholders with large common stock ownership positions to sell or liquidate shares at a suitable price. Dividend Policy. The Company historically has paid a quarterly dividend to its common stockholders. A reduction or discontinuation of this practice could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Changes to the Markets or Exchanges On Which the Company’s Common Shares Are Traded. The Company’s common shares trade on the NYSE Alternext U.S. Changes to the NYSE Alternext U.S. trading practices or systems, reputation or financial condition, or rules which govern trading on the NYSE Alternext U.S. may impact our shareholders’ ability to buy or sell their common shares at a suitable price. Goodwill Impairment The current global financial crisis has depressed stock market trading values, particularly those of financial institutions. Should our common stock value trade consistently below our book value, we would re-evaluate the amount of goodwill through an impairment test. If impairment is warranted, the amount would be recorded through the income statement as a reduction to current period earnings. 22-K Index ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has not been subject to any comments by the SEC during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that remain unresolved. 