ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The investment performance of our common shares is affected by several material risk factors. These factors (summarized below) can affect our financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, you should be aware of these risk factors and how each may potentially affect your investment in our common stock. General Competitive and Economic Conditions. National, regional, and local competitive conditions can negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our existing competition may begin offering new products and services, change the price for existing products and services, or open a new office in direct competition with one of our offices. In addition, new competitors can establish a physical presence in our market or begin offering products and services through the Internet or other remote channels that compete directly with our products and services. All of these factors are dynamic and may affect the demand for our products and services, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 19-K Index Regional and local economic conditions including employment and unemployment conditions, population growth, and price and wage scale changes, may impact the demand for our products and services, the level of customer deposits, or credit status of our borrowers. National and international economic conditions including raw materials costs, oil prices, consumer demand, and consumer trends, may impact the demand for our commercial borrower’s products and services, which, in turn, can affect our financial condition and results of operation. Real Estate Market Conditions. If real estate values in the market decline or become stagnant, business could be adversely affected. Real estate values in our market area have risen over the last several years. There continues to be a significant amount of speculation that the United States, or at least certain parts of the country, is in the midst of a real estate “bubble,” meaning that current real estate prices exceed the true values of the properties. If this is the case, or if the market generally perceives that this is the case, then real estate prices could become stagnant or decline, and there could be a significant reduction in real estate construction and housing starts. In addition, the value and liquidity of the real estate or other collateral securing Wilber’s loans could be impaired. A significant portion of the loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2007, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 64.9% of the loan portfolio. While Wilber is not a subprime lender, a decline in the value of residential and commercial real estate securing the loans could adversely impact Wilber’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Given Wilber’s heavy reliance on real estate lending, this could have a significant adverse affect on business. Credit Risk. One of our main functions as a financial intermediary is to extend credit, in the form of loans, commitments and investments, to individuals, businesses, state, local and federal government and government sponsored entities within and outside of our primary market area. The risk associated with these extensions of credit pose significant risks to earnings and capital that need to be controlled and monitored by management. Losses incurred by us due to borrower’s failing to repay loans or other extensions of credit will negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Performance of Large Borrowers. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent upon the credit worthiness and financial performance of our borrowers. The Bank has several borrowers or groups of related borrowers whose total indebtedness with the Bank exceeds $1.0 million. The financial performance of these borrowers is a material risk factor that may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Be Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses. The Bank’s Vice President of Credit Risk Management and Planning, under the control and supervision of the Board of Directors, continually monitors the credit status of the Bank’s loan portfolio. The adequacy of the Allowance for Loan Losses is reviewed quarterly by the Board of Directors, and periodically by an independent loan review firm under the direction of the Bank’s Audit Committee, the Bank’s regulators, and the Company’s external auditors. However, because the Allowance for Loan Losses is an estimate of probable losses and is based on management’s experience and assumptions, there is no certainty that the Allowance for Loan Losses will be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. Actual loan losses in excess of the Allowance for Loan Losses would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Interest Rates and Capital Markets. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent upon the amount of the interest income we receive on our earning assets and the interest we pay for our funding and capital resources. Accordingly, changes in interest rates and capital markets can affect our financial condition and results of operations. A detailed analysis regarding our market risk and interest rate sensitivity is contained in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Fraud Risk. Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of the Bank, an employee, a vendor, or members of the general public. A loss due to fraud that is determined not to be insured under our fidelity insurance coverage could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in Laws, Regulations, and Policies. Financial institutions are highly regulated companies and are subject to numerous laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or regulations, particularly at the federal and state level, may materially impact the business climate we operate within, which, in turn, may impact the economic return on our common shares, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Changes to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are periodically issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”). The purpose of these new Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is to quantify, identify, or disclose certain aspects of a company’s financial condition or results of operations. 20-K Index Changes in the Financial Condition of Government Agencies, Government Sponsored Enterprises, and Local and State Governments. We invest substantially in the debt instruments issued by U.S. Government Agencies, U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises, and local and state governments. A deterioration of the credit standing of any of these issuers of debt may materially impact our financial condition or results of operations. Actions of Regulatory Authorities. The Company and the Bank are subject to the supervision of several federal and state regulatory bodies. These regulatory bodies have authority to issue, change, and enforce rules and regulations including the authority to assess fines. Changes to these regulations may impact the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or the Bank. See Item 1 I. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional explanation regarding the regulations to which the Company and the Bank are subject. Changes in the Company’s Policies or Management. Our financial condition and results of operations depend upon the policies approved by the Board of Directors and the practices of management. Changes in our policies or management practices, particularly credit policies and practices of the Bank, may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Incidents Affecting Our Reputation. The demand for our products and services is influenced by our reputation and the reputation of our management and employees. Public incidents that negatively affect the reputation of the Company or the Bank, including, but not limited to, breaches in the security of customer information or unfair or deceptive practices, may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or economic performance of the Company’s common stock. Technology Risk. We deploy various forms of technology to facilitate and process customer and internal transactions. In addition, we gather, store and summarize various forms of computer generated data to analyze the Company’s services, business processes and financial performance. Although we maintain various policies and procedures, including data back-up and recovery procedures, to mitigate technology risk, in the event one of our systems were to fail it could have and adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity of the Company’s Common Shares. The Company’s common stock is lightly traded on the Amex®. This condition may make it difficult for shareholders with large common stock ownership positions to sell or liquidate shares at a suitable price. Changes to the Markets or Exchanges On Which the Company’s Common Shares Are Traded. The Company’s common shares trade on the Amex®. Changes to the Amex®’s trading practices or systems, reputation or financial condition, or rules which govern trading on the Amex may impact our shareholders’ ability to buy or sell his / her common shares at a suitable price. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has not been subject to any comments by the SEC during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that remain unresolved. ITEM 