Item 1A. Risk Factors - ----------------------- Shareholders should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect the business, operating results and financial condition of the Company. In addition, these factors could adversely affect the value of an investment in the Company's capital stock. Our operations may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. - ----------------------------------------------------------------------- General economic factors that are beyond the Company's control impact the Company's forecasts and actual performance. These factors include interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; the threat or possibility of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; political or financial instability; and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause these factors to change with a greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Changes in the economic climate could adversely affect the Company's performance. Our business faces a great deal of competitive pressure. - ------------------------------------------------------- The Publishing Division operates in a market that is highly competitive, with a large number of companies selling books. The Publishing Division is in direct competition with all of these other companies, the majority of which have larger financial resources than the Company. The book industry is a $25.1 billion market. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and marketing practices of these competitors may adversely affect the performance of the Company's Publishing Division. Seasonality of sales. - -------------------- The Company's business is subject to seasonal influences, with a major portion of sales and income historically realized during the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, which includes traditional holiday seasons. This seasonality causes the Company's operating results to vary somewhat from quarter to quarter and could materially and adversely affect the market price of its securities. 6 Our operations are highly dependent on a single distribution facility. - --------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company's distribution functions for most of its publishing products are handled from a single facility in Nashville, Tennessee. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair the Company's ability to distribute merchandise to its customers, which could cause sales to decline. Other factors may negatively affect our business. - ------------------------------------------------ The foregoing list of risk factors is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect the Company. These other factors include, but are not limited to: softness in the general retail environment or in the markets for our products; the timing and acceptance of products being introduced to the market; the level of product returns experienced; the level of margins achievable in the marketplace; the collectibility of accounts receivable; the recoupment of royalty advances; the effects of acquisitions or dispositions; the financial condition of our customers and suppliers; the realization of inventory values at carrying amounts; our access to capital; implementation of new processes and systems; the outcome of any Internal Revenue Service audits; and the realization of income tax and intangible assets. These conditions cannot be predicted reliably, and the Company may adjust its strategy in light of changed conditions or new information. Thomas Nelson disclaims any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ----------------------------------- None. 