Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous risks, some of which are beyond our control. As a smaller reporting company we are not required to report these risk factors; however the following highlights some of these risks. We may not be able to continue as a going concern or fund our existing capital needs. Our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion with respect to our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. The paragraph states that our recurring losses from operations and resulting continued dependence on external financing raise substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our existing and anticipated capital needs are significant. We believe our existing financing arrangements and estimated operating cash flows will not be sufficient to fund our operations and working capital needs for the next twelve months and there can be no assurance that we will be able to fund our existing capital needs under our existing credit facilities or otherwise secure additional funding, if necessary. In addition, changes in our operating plans, the acceleration or modification of our existing expansion plans, lower than anticipated revenues, increased expenses, potential acquisitions, or other events may cause us to seek additional financing sooner than anticipated, prevent us from achieving the goals of our business plan or expansion strategy, or prevent our newly acquired businesses, if any, from operating profitably. If we are unable to fund our existing capital needs under our existing credit facilities, or are otherwise unable to secure additional equity financing, if necessary, our business could be materially adversely affected. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources. 9 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and expectation of future losses; uncertainty of future profitability; and limits on operations. From our incorporation in 1982 through December 31, 2008, we have incurred an accumulated loss of approximately $172.2 million and have been profitable in only one fiscal year during that time. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability in the future. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Our continued slow revenue growth and operating losses may indicate circumstances requiring an impairment to be recorded. If our losses continue, we will have to obtain funds to meet our cash requirements through business alliances, such as strategic or financial transactions with third parties, the sale of securities or other financing arrangements, or we may be required to curtail our operations, seek a merger partner, or seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws. Any of the foregoing may be on terms that are unfavorable to us or disadvantageous to existing stockholders. In addition, no assurance may be given that we will be successful in raising additional funds or entering into business alliances. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources. We are dependent upon our proprietary technology and its marketability as state of the art. The technology we use may become obsolete or limit our ability to compete effectively within the wireless, automatic identification and multi-media applicable industries. These industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of industry standards can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products. Our success will also depend on our ability to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and that address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. Our business would be adversely affected if we were to incur difficulties or delays in developing new products or enhancements or if those products or enhancements did not gain market acceptance. Specifically: • we may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change or evolving industry standards; • we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products; and • we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products; and • our new products and enhanced products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance or may not keep pace with advances made by our competitors. We currently hold five U.S. patents. We have four patents in various stages of prosecution. The time period covered by our patents ranges from five to twenty years; however, there can be no assurance that our technologies will be accepted in the marketplace. In addition, different technologies owned by others could arise that would be superior or more marketable than ours. See Description of Business—Patents and Proprietary Technology. The loss of one or more members of management or key personnel could adversely affect our operations and could lead to loss of clients and proprietary information. Our business, success, growth, operating results, and profitability are dependent upon the skills, experience, efforts, performance, and abilities of members of management and other key personnel. We depend upon members of management and key personnel, including key sales personnel, to generate new business and to service new and existing clients. If any members of management or key personnel were to leave us, our business, success, growth, operating results and profitability could suffer. If we lose any key personnel, we may also be unable to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices, procedures, or client lists by the former personnel. Disclosure or use of this information could harm our business. We may face substantial competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, and may be unable to grow our business if we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success will depend to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy our business and client service needs. These personnel may be in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas, and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite experience and skill depends on several factors, including our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits, and professional growth opportunities. To attract and retain these individuals, we will be required to invest a significant amount of time and money. Many of the companies with which we will compete for experienced personnel have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. In addition, an important component of overall compensation for our personnel will be equity. If our stock price does not increase over time, it may be more difficult to retain personnel who have been compensated with stock awards or options. The inability to attract, train, and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents Because we are significantly smaller and less established than a majority of our competitors, we may lack the financial resources necessary to compete effectively and sustain profitability. We operate in competitive, fragmented industries and compete for clients with a variety of larger and smaller companies that offer similar products and services. These industries are subject to rapid technology changes and are significantly affected by new products and services and the marketing activities of industry participants, which may often be beyond our control. Due to the nature of our business, we compete with companies in the security products, security consulting and defense industries. Although we primarily compete directly with firms who offer similar security products, we also compete directly and indirectly with a number of other companies, which provide and install large security systems as a single contractor. Many of these competitors are more established, offer more products, services and features, have a greater number of clients, locations, and employees, and also have significantly greater financial (based on total assets and annual revenues), technical, marketing, public relations, name recognition, and other resources than we have. We also expect to experience increased competition from new entrants into the market. We may be unable to compete with large multi-product security companies, including the security divisions of large international firms. This increased competition may result in pricing pressures, loss of market share or loss of clients, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See Description of Business—Competition. We are dependent upon third party manufacturers and suppliers to produce our products. As a cost efficiency measure, we do not manufacture our own parts and product line but contract such supply and manufacture to third parties. The failure by any of our vendors, suppliers or contractors to fulfill their contractual obligations to us could adversely affect our operations. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components and manufacturers for our products, or develop alternative sources, delays in product introductions or shipments could occur and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Description of Business—Manufacturing. The voting control of Axcess is held by Amphion Group, and other stockholders are unlikely to have any ability to influence the governance or policies of our company. As of December 31, 2008, Amphion Ventures LP and affiliates of Amphion Ventures LP, including Amphion Partners, Amphion Investments, Antiope Partners, Amphion Capital Partners, Amphion Capital Management LLC, Amphion Innovations plc, Amphion Innovations US and VennWorks LLC (collectively, the “Amphion Group”) owns approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock. This level of ownership provides the Amphion Group with the power to determine the outcome of almost any matter submitted for the vote or consent of our stockholders. Additionally, two of our five directors are affiliates of the Amphion Group. See Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile, which may adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and our ability to raise additional capital. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile. For instance, from November 1, 2002 through December 31, 2008, our common stock traded from a low of $.022 to a high of $3.60 per share. The price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not even be directly related to us, including: • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or our common stock; • our performance and the performance of our competitors and other companies in the technology or marketing sectors; • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of other companies in the technology or marketing sectors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the trading volume of our common stock; • general economic conditions and their effect on the technology or advertising and marketing sectors, in general; and • competition, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other developments affecting us or our competitors. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. This volatility has significantly affected and may continue to affect, the price of our common stock and may adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and our ability to raise additional capital. See Market and Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters. 11 Table of Contents Our common stock may be subject to penny stock rules and regulations. Federal rules and regulations under the Exchange Act regulate the trading of so-called penny stocks, which generally refers to low-priced (below $5.00), speculative securities of very small companies traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the Pink Sheets. Trading, if any, in shares of our common stock may be subject to the full range of penny stock rules. Before a broker/dealer can sell a penny stock, these rules require the broker/dealer to first approve the investor for the transaction and obtain from the investor a written agreement regarding the transaction. The broker/dealer must also furnish the investor with a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker/dealer must also tell the investor the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the broker/dealer will receive for the trade. Finally, the broker/dealer must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the investor’s account. If these rules are not followed by the broker/dealer, the investor may have no obligation to purchase the shares. Accordingly, these rules and regulations may make it more expensive and difficult for broker/dealers to sell shares of our common stock, and purchasers of our common stock may experience difficulty in selling such shares in secondary trading markets. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 