Item 1A. Risk Factors Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and fluctuate in response to a number of factors; Lower prices could reduce the net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. The Trust’s monthly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of crude oil and natural gas and a material decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of cash distributions paid to Unit holders. Crude oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: • political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially in the Middle East; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of domestic and foreign crude oil or natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation. When crude oil and natural gas prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net income from the Royalty Properties is reduced. Second, exploration and development activity by operators on the Royalty Properties may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or eliminated. It is impossible to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements, and this reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit holders. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future net revenues to be too high, leading to write-downs of estimated reserves. The value of the Units will depend upon, among other things, the reserves attributable to the Royalty Properties. The calculations of proved reserves and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues are based upon various assumptions regarding future production levels, prices and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering interpretation and judgment, and the assumptions used regarding the quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas and the future prices of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make many assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: • historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; • the effects of governmental regulation; • assumptions about future commodity prices, production and taxes; 13 Table of Contents • the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and • relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Changes in any of these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve and future net revenue estimates. The Trust’s estimate of reserves and future net revenues is further complicated because the Trust holds an interest in net royalties and overriding royalties and does not own a specific percentage of the crude oil or natural gas reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Royalty Properties, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write-downs of reserves. The assets of the Trust are depleting assets and, if the operators developing the Royalty Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. Eventually, the assets of the Trust will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will cease to receive proceeds from such assets. In addition, a reduction in depletion tax benefits may reduce the market value of the Units. The net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Projects, which are determined solely by the operator, on the Royalty Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves and can offset the reduction in proved reserves. If the operators developing the Royalty Properties do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. Because the net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Unit holders, which could reduce the market value of the Units over time. Eventually, the Royalty Properties will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net proceeds therefrom. The market price for the Units may not reflect the value of the royalty interests held by the Trust. The public trading price for the Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distribution on the Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas produced from the Royalty Properties. The market price is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if it sold those Royalty Properties to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unit holder over the life of these depleting assets will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unit holder. Terrorism and continued hostilities in the Middle East could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the Units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism, continued hostilities in the Middle East, and other sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, or the 14 Table of Contents possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators developing the Royalty Properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. Cash held by the Trustee is not fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and future royalty income may be subject to risks related to the creditworthiness of third parties. Currently, cash held by the Trustee as a reserve for liabilities and for the payment of expenses and distributions to Unit holders is invested in Bank of America certificates of deposit which are backed by the good faith of Bank of America, N.A., but are only insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to $250,000. Each Unit holder should independently assess the creditworthiness of Bank of America, N.A. For more information about the credit rating of Bank of America, N.A., please refer to its periodic filings with the SEC. The Trust does not lend money and has limited ability to borrow money, which the Trustee believes limits the Trust’s risk from the current tightening of credit markets. The Trust’s future royalty income, however, may be subject to risks relating to the creditworthiness of the operators of the underlying properties and other purchasers of the crude oil and natural gas produced from the underlying properties, as well as risks associated with fluctuations in the price of crude oil and natural gas. Information contained in Bank of America, N.A.’s periodic filings with the SEC is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that the Trust makes with the SEC. Unit holders and the Trustee have no influence over the operations on, or future development of, the Royalty Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit holders can influence or control the operations on, or future development of, the Royalty Properties. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. The current operators developing the Royalty Properties are under no obligation to continue operations on the Royalty Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit holders have the right to replace an operator. The operator developing any Royalty Property may abandon the property, thereby terminating the royalties payable to the Trust. The operators developing the Royalty Properties, or any transferee thereof, may abandon any well or property without the consent of the Trust or the Unit holders if they reasonably believe that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in the termination of the royalties relating to the abandoned well or property. The Royalty Properties can be sold and the Trust would be terminated. The Trustee must sell the Royalty Properties if Unit holders approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust as described under “Item 1 — Description of the Trust — Voting Rights of Unit Holders” above. The Trustee must also sell the Royalty Properties if they fail to generate net revenue for the Trust of at least $2,000,000 per year over any consecutive two-year period. Sale of all of the Royalty Properties will terminate the Trust. The net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit holders. Unit holders have limited voting rights and have limited ability to enforce the Trust’s rights against the current or future operators developing the Royalty Properties. The voting rights of a Unit holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. 15 Table of Contents The Trust Agreement and related trust law permit the Trustee and the Trust to take appropriate action against the operators developing the Royalty Properties to compel them to fulfill the terms of the conveyance of the Royalty Properties. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the conveyance, the recourse of the Unit holders would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. Unit holders probably would not be able to sue any of the operators developing the Royalty Properties. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the financial statements of the Trust differ from GAAP financial statements because revenues are not accrued in the month of production and cash reserves may be established for specified contingencies and deducted which could not be accrued in GAAP financial statements. The limited liability of the Unit holders is uncertain. The Unit holders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation’s liabilities. The structure of the Trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership which would provide further limited liability protection to Unit holders. While the Trustee is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to insure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of Trust assets, under the laws of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a holder of Units may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liability was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, Unit holders may be exposed to personal liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Trust has not received any written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Act more than 180 days prior to December 31, 2012, which comments remain unresolved. 