ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that have included severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to utilize our current credit facilities and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies such that our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations might be impaired. Adverse market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Demand for our products is vulnerable to economic downturns. The worsening of economic condition could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and the global adverse economic conditions and the effect such events might have on our business. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or early termination of sales contracts due to the current deterioration in economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control, including customer demand and raw materials pricing. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for our products and changes in the price of copper, which directly affects the prices of our products and may influence demand. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, our operating results each quarter could be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity), various types of insurance coverage and interruptions in plant operations. Some uses of our products are subject to seasonality factors which can affect our quarter to quarter results as well. Fluctuating copper prices impact our business and operating results. The copper industry is highly volatile and cyclical in nature. Copper prices, which have increased over the past several years followed by more recent sharp declines, have varied significantly and may vary significantly in the future. This affects our business both positively and negatively. Since our products are a substitute for pure copper wire, higher copper prices increase demand for our products, while lower copper prices can decrease demand. Numerous factors influence copper price. These factors include general economic conditions, industry capacity utilization, import duties and other trade restrictions. We cannot predict copper prices in the future or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on our future operating results. We mitigate the impact of changing raw material prices by attempting to pass changes in prices to our customers by adjusting prices at least monthly to reflect changes in raw material prices, as is customary in the industry. We may not be able to adjust our product prices rapidly enough in the short-term to recover the costs of increases in raw materials. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers. 15 We may encounter substantial competition in our business and our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. The bimetallic industry is becoming increasingly competitive in China. The principal elements of competition in the bimetallic industry are, in our opinion, pricing, payment terms, product availability and quality. While we believe that we have attained a leadership position with respect to all of these factors, our major competitors with substantially greater resources than us may be better able to successfully endure downturns in our industrial sector. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet the competition or maintain selling prices, which may sacrifice market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced under either scenario. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets continue to grow and develop as we expect, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in managing expanding product offerings and in integrating acquired businesses with our own. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management and facilities. Failure to manage this growth and expansion could interrupt or adversely affect our operations, cause production backlogs, longer product development time frames and administrative inefficiencies. A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results from operations could be adversely affected and stockholder value harmed if we lose these customers. Our revenue is dependent, in large part, on significant orders from a limited number of customers. Our top five customers represented 15.2%, 18.2%, and 24.6% of our net sales during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We believe that revenue derived from current and future large customers will continue to decline as we continue our efforts to diversify our business and reduce customer concentration, but will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. Our inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions. Shortages or disruptions in the availability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business. Aluminum and steel rods and copper strips, our principal raw materials, collectively accounted for approximately 85.0% of our costs of goods sold during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. We expect that raw materials will continue to account for a significant portion of our cost of goods sold in the future. The prices of raw materials fluctuate because of general economic conditions, global supply and demand and other factors causing monthly variations in the costs of our raw materials purchases. The macro-economic factors, together with labor and other business interruptions experienced by certain suppliers, have contributed to periodic shortages in the supply of raw materials, and such shortages may increase in the future. If we are unable to procure adequate supplies of raw material to meet our future production needs and customer demand, shortages could result in a material loss of customers and revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, supply shortages or disruptions or the loss of suppliers may cause us to procure our raw materials from less cost effective sources and may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues and results of operations. 16 We depend on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our principal raw materials and we do not have any long-term supply contracts with our raw materials suppliers. Interruptions of production at our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for most of the raw materials we use. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, purchase from our five largest suppliers of metal raw materials represented approximately 60% of our total raw material purchases. Purchases from our five largest suppliers of raw materials represented 65% and 38.6% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Interruptions or shortages of supplies from our key suppliers of raw materials could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers and we may have limited options in the short-term for alternative supply if these suppliers fail for any reason, including their business failure or financial difficulties, to continue the supply of materials or components. Moreover, identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. Interruptions at our key suppliers could negatively impact our results of operations, financial performance and the price of our common stock. Due to increased volatility of raw material prices, the timing lag between the raw material purchase and product pricing can negatively impact our profitability. Volatility in the prices of raw materials, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, our manufacturing activities are determined, and raw materials purchases scheduled, upon forecasted demand while sales prices are determined at the time of order placement, subject to adjustment at fulfillment. The lag between the point when raw materials are acquired in advance and the point when products are actually priced may impact us both positively and negatively, resulting in increased or reduced profitability. In addition, we routinely maintain a certain level of finished goods inventories to meet near term expected demand. Pricing for the sale of these inventories is generally based on current raw material prices. Rapid declines in the price of raw materials may result in our inventories being carried at costs in excess of net realizable value and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our common stock. We rely on short-term financing from banks for our daily operation. We rely on short-term borrowings to fund our financing needs. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debt, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt service, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. In China, short-term bank loans generally mature in one year or less and contain no specific renewal terms. However, it is customary practice for banks and borrowers to negotiate roll-overs or renewals of short-term borrowings on an on-going basis shortly before they mature. Although we have renewed our short-term borrowings in the past, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these loans in the future as they mature. If we are unable to obtain renewals of these loans or sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms from banks or other parties, we will have to repay these borrowings with the cash on our balance sheet or cash generated by our future operations, if any. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay these borrowings. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivable could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and results of operations. A substantial portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for our products, or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could materially adversely affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collections costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could affect our cash flow and working capital position and could also impact the cost or availability of financing available to us. 17 We face manufacturing challenges due to difficulties in forecasting customer demand. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: variation in demand for our customers’ products; our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; design changes; changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategy; and acquisitions of or consolidations among customers. Due in part to these factors, many of our customers do not commit to long-term production schedules. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons and such actions could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we make significant operating decisions based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. If we fail to accurately project market demand for our products, our business expansion plan could be jeopardized and our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. We plan to increase our annual manufacturing capacity and relocate unused capacity from Fayetteville, Tennessee to Dalian, China, to meet an expected increase in demand for our products in the Asia Pacific region. Our decision to increase our manufacturing capacity was based primarily on our projected increases in our sales volume and growth in the size of the bimetallic market in China. If actual customer orders are less than our projected market demand, we may suffer overcapacity problems and may have to leave capacity idle, which can reduce our overall profitability and hurt our financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter problems associated with our global operations. A significant portion of our operations consists of manufacturing and sales activities outside of PRC, primarily in the US. Our ability to sell our products and conduct our operations globally is subject to a number of risks. Local economic and political conditions in each country, as well as labor conditions in the US and the UK where we have facilities, could adversely affect demand for our products and services or disrupt our operations in these markets. We may also experience reduced intellectual property protection or longer and more challenging collection cycles as a result of different customary business practices in certain countries where we do business. Additionally, we face the following risks: • International business conditions including the relationships between the U.S., Chinese and other governments; • Unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade, monetary or fiscal policy, including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the rate of inflation in the U.S., China or other foreign countries; • Tariffs, quotas and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers; • Difficulties in staffing and management; • Language and cultural barriers; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences. Copperweld’s ability to sustain profitability is uncertain. Prior to acquiring Copperweld, it incurred losses for the entire time it operated as a stand-alone business. Copperweld’s ability to generate sufficient revenues and make profits is dependent in large part on its ability to move more value-added production in house, control manufacturing related costs, manage its growth related expenses, make additional capital expenditures, expand its customer base, increase sales of its current products to existing customers, enter into additional supply arrangements and manage its working capital and other financial resources. Although we have implemented cost reduction initiatives at Copperweld, which resulted in profit of $0.4 million at the operating income level and $0.2 million of net income in the third quarter 2009, we cannot provide any assurance that improved profitability can continue and be sustained at Copperweld in the amounts or during the periods expected. 18 We face risks associated with future investments or acquisitions. An important element of our growth strategy is to invest in or acquire businesses that will enable us, among other things, to expand our manufacturing capacity and the products we offer. However, we may be unable to identify suitable investment or acquisition candidates or may be unable to make these investments or acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. Integrating an acquired business is distracting and time consuming, as well as a potentially expensive process. The successful integration of any acquired businesses requires us to: • integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our offerings from an engineering, sales and marketing perspective; • coordinate research and development efforts; • integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and • consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine back office accounting, order processing and support functions. Geographic distance between business operations, the compatibility of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined also present significant challenges. Acquired businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. Our focus on integrating operations may also distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights may significantly and materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is important to our business. We generally rely on a combination of the patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC, U.S. and certain other countries in which our products are produced or sold, as well as licenses and nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. The patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of some countries, though, including the PRC, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable proprietary technologies. Additionally, some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application and, even if a patent application has been filed, it may not result in an issued patent. If patents are issued to us, those patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. In addition, upon the expiration of patents issued to us, we will be unable to prevent our competitors from using or introducing products using the formerly-patented technology. As a result, we may be faced with increased competition and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. 19 Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements that are important to our business with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. We could also face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, to redesign our products partially or completely, to pay to use the technology of others or to stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product(s) entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prompt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. We may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products. We rely on an exclusive third-party license agreement for patents and technology related to our products, and the termination or material impairment of our rights under that agreement could impede or prevent us from being able to produce or commercialize our products, significantly impacting our competitive position, sales, revenue and growth strategy. A substantial portion of our business is dependent on a worldwide exclusive license of certain patents and technology related to the production of bimetallic rods and wire from kabelmetal electro GmbH (now Nexans Deutschland Industries GmbH & Co. KG) (“Nexans”), dated June 6, 1991 and subsequently amended. This license imposes certain obligations upon us, including an obligation to make royalty payments to Nexans on certain sales of licensed products. If we fail to fulfill one or more of our obligations under this agreement, and do not adequately cure the breach in a timely manner, or we and Nexans otherwise become involved in a dispute, the breach or dispute could result in the termination of, or could otherwise have a material adverse impact on, our rights under the Nexans license agreement. While we would expect to exercise all rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to timely cure any breach, resolve any dispute, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the Nexans patents and technology, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. If our rights under the Nexans license agreement are terminated or materially impaired, we may not be able to develop similar alternative technology or to negotiate a new license agreement for similar technology with another licensor on reasonable terms or at all. Upon the expiration of any of the Nexans patents exclusively licensed to us, we will be unable to prevent our competitors from using or introducing products using the formerly-patented technology. As a result, we may be faced with increased competition. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products or more advanced replacement products prior to the expiration of the Nexans patents exclusively licensed to us, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In such event, the quality of our products may suffer, our competitive advantage in the market may be significantly diminished, our revenue may significantly decrease and we may not be able to develop or maintain our customer and strategic relationships. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various Chinese environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid wastes and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the Chinese environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the Chinese government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we will have to incur additional and potentially substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in any material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend or even cease operations. Regulations promulgated by the US government, the State of Tennessee and local authorities impose environmental rules and regulations on our Fayetteville operation. Our Fayetteville plant is subject to regular reporting to and inspections by local, state and federal authorities. To date, inspections have not found our Fayetteville plant in violation of any rules or regulations. We believe that we comply in all material respects with the environmental rules imposed on our Fayetteville plant. Our internal procedures require regular 20 monitoring of our processes to assure that we do not violate environmental standards. Failure to comply with Chinese or US environmental laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance in the PRC, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance in China. We cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. This is particularly true given our plan to significantly expand our sales into international markets, like the United States, where product liability claims are more prevalent. We carry product liability insurance for our Fayetteville operations but we have no assurance that the coverage would be sufficient in the event of a claim. We have purchased automobile insurance with third party liability coverage for our vehicles. In addition, we have purchased property insurance from China United Property Insurance Company to cover real property and plant. Except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. In the event of a significant product liability claim or other uninsured event, our financial results and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Likewise, we maintain casualty insurance for our plant and equipment in Fayetteville and Telford; however, we cannot assure you that the coverage would be sufficient to replace our equipment in the event of a catastrophe. We do not maintain a reserve fund for warranty or defective products claims. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims. Our product warranties against technical defects of our copper-clad products wires vary, depending on our purchase orders with customers. The warranties require us to replace defective components and pay for the losses customers incur from defective products or a certain percentage of the purchase price as liquidated damages for our failure to meet the specified product specifications and packaging requirements in the purchase orders. We have not established any reserve funds for potential warranty claims since historically we have experienced few warranty claims for our products so that the costs associated with our warranty claims have been low. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could suffer significant business interruptions. Our operations and those of our suppliers may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as the earthquake experienced in Sichuan province of China in May 2008, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, or government imposed restriction or reduction on industrial manufacturing activities such as the one during the Olympics from August to September 2008. If a business interruption occurs, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Previously, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants in our Financing Agreement with Wells Fargo. For both quarters ended on June 30, 2009 and March 31, 2009, Copperweld reported a negative fixed charge ratio due to the loss incurred on a rolling 12 months basis, and as a result was in violation of maintaining a fixed charge ratio of at least 1.0 to 1.0 under the financing agreement with Wells Fargo. This was the sole violation of the covenants under the terms of the revolving line of credit agreement with Wells Fargo. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $4.0 million in borrowings outstanding under the line of credit. The default did not result in any cross defaults under our other existing debt, however, on May 6, 2009, Wells Fargo exercised its right to implement a 2% additional default rate of interest effective April 1, 2009 for the March 31 covenant violation. Although Wells Fargo had the right to accelerate the amounts outstanding they did not exercise such right and on August 11, 2009 we entered into a Forbearance Agreement with them which expired on October 31, 2009. Prior to the expiration on October 27, 2009, we entered into an amendment to the Forbearance Agreement which extends the forbearance period to January 31, 2010. As of February 2, 2010 we paid off all amounts outstanding under the revolving line of credit and closed such line. 21 Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC Changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of that business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of the PRC. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy, such as the United States. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in policies by the PRC government, including: • changes in laws, regulations or their interpretation; • confiscatory taxation; • restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies; • expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC’s political, economic and social life. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our products and our business. A majority of our operations are conducted in the PRC and more than 80% of our net sales for 2009 were generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The bimetallic wire industry in the PRC is growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. With the addition of Copperweld we are now exposed to global economic conditions. In the future, a slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments globally or in a large segment of the world could have adverse economic developments and may materially and adversely affect our business. Recently announced tightened controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency have made it more difficult to make payments in U.S. dollars and fund business and operating activities of our subsidiaries located outside of China. Substantially all of the cash on our balance sheet is in RMB. Tightened restrictions on currency exchanges has considerably limited our ability to convert our cash in RMB to make payments in U.S. dollars 22 or fund business and operating activities of our subsidiaries located outside of China, which has had the most significant impact on our ability to support Copperweld’s operations in Fayetteville, TN. Although as of December 31, 2009, our PRC subsidiaries could legally pay approximately $127.0 million in dividends, our PRC subsidiaries have never paid dividends to our non-PRC subsidiaries and parent company and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. Historically, our Dalian subsidiary has provided financial support to our non-PRC subsidiaries and our parent company to meet their cash requirements by transferring its operation fund to those entities. The transfer of operation funds from Dalian to our non- PRC subsidiaries and parent company during 2009 was $21.3 million. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to the approval of the PRC State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and other relevant authorities, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. As an example, in the first quarter of 2009 the new SAFE restrictions caused a delay in our ability to convert and provide intercompany loans to our US subsidiary to pay interest on our HY Notes and Convertible Notes that were outstanding at the time. As a result, we raised capital from outside sources to allow for such payments to be made through Copperweld. We cannot assure you that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose new or more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Any adverse actions by SAFE could affect our ability to get cash, by means of loans or capital contributions, to our parent company and our non-PRC subsidiaries in order to fund operations. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. Since a significant portion of our revenues are earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi the U.S. dollar equivalent of the we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of tying the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a continuous appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation generally has been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. 23 The following table sets forth information concerning exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar for the periods indicated. These rates are provided solely for your convenience and are not necessarily the exchange rates that we used in this presentation or will use in the preparation of our periodic reports or any other information to be provided to you. The source of these rates is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Period Noon Buying Rate Period End Average(1) Low High (RMB per US$1.00) 2005 8.0702 8.1826 8.2765 8.0702 2006 7.8041 7.9636 8.0702 7.8041 2007 7.2946 7.6058 7.8127 7.2946 2008 6.8225 6.9477 7.2946 6.7800 2009 6.8259 6.8307 6.8470 6.8176 (1) Annual averages are calculated from month-end rates. Monthly averages are calculated using the average of the daily rates during the relevant period. (2) Unless otherwise noted, all translations from RMB to U.S. dollars and from U.S. dollars to RMB in this report were made in the statement of operations at 6.831 to $1, balance sheet at 6.826 to $1 and equity section at historical rates. If preferential tax concessions granted by the PRC government are changed or expire, our financial results and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operation may be adversely affected by changes to, or expiration of, preferential tax concessions that our subsidiaries in the PRC currently enjoy. The statutory tax rate generally applicable to domestic PRC companies is 25% per the newly adopted PRC corporate income tax law which came into effect since January 1, 2008. Our subsidiaries, Fushi International (Dalian) as a Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise, or WFOE, and Dalian Fushi as a “new or high-technology enterprise” located in Economic Development Zone of the Dalian City, have been subject to tax exemptions or relatively low tax rates and continue to enjoy their former preferential tax treatments until such treatments expire in accordance with their current terms. The estimated tax savings for the year ended December 31, 2009 without preferential tax treatment amounted to approximately $5.3 million. Tax laws in China are subject to interpretation by local tax authorities. Our preferential tax treatment may not remain in effect, or may change, in which case we may be required to pay the higher income tax rate generally applicable to Chinese companies, or such other rate as is required by the laws of China. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock, and may also create uncertainties in the future. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE,” issued a public notice in November 2005, known as Circular 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies in mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice provides that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also suggests that registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of shares in an offshore holding company that owns an onshore company. The PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. 24 On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises (the “Revised M&A Regulations”), which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. Among other things, the revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Dacheng Law Firm, has advised us that because we completed our onshore-to-offshore restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our common stock does not require CSRC approval. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our restructuring, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, published news reports in China recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of Circular 75 and the Revised M&A Regulations. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary 25 applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. We intend to make numerous stock option grants under our equity incentive plan to our officers and directors, some of whom are PRC citizens and may be required to register with SAFE. In addition to our officers and directors that received option grants, future participants of our equity incentive plan or any other equity compensation plan we may adopt who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be adversely affected. Provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes may discourage a change of control. We are incorporated in Nevada. Certain provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, or NRS, could delay or make more difficult a change of control transaction or other business combination that may be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to Nevada’s “Combinations With Interested Stockholders” statutes (NRS Sections 78.411 through 78.444), which provide that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a Nevada corporation with at least 200 stockholders cannot engage in specified business combinations with the corporation for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested stockholder is approved by the corporation’s Board of Directors before the person first became an interested stockholder. Nevada’s “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes (NRS Sections 78.378 – 78.3793) apply only to Nevada corporations with at least 200 stockholders, including at least 100 stockholders of record who are Nevada residents, and which conduct business directly or indirectly in Nevada. As of the date of this prospectus, we do not believe we have 100 stockholders of record who are residents of Nevada, although there can be no assurance that in the future the “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes will not apply to us. The “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes provide that persons who acquire a “controlling interest”, as defined in NRS Section 78.3785, in a company may only be given full voting rights in their shares if such rights are conferred by the disinterested stockholders of the company at an annual or special meeting. However, any disinterested stockholder that does not vote in favor of granting such voting rights is entitled to demand that the company pay fair value for their shares, if the acquiring person has acquired at least a majority of all of the voting power of the company. As such, persons acquiring a controlling interest may not be able to vote their shares. Our ability to realize our deferred tax assets may be reduced if our estimates of future taxable income and tax planning strategies do not support the carrying amount, and the value of net operating loss carryforwards may be reduced if sales of our securities result in an “ownership change” as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2009, we had deferred tax assets of $11.7 million. These and future deferred tax assets may be reduced if our estimates of future taxable income from our operations and tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax assets. It is possible that the value of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards realizable for income tax purposes be reduced. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s NOLs, as well as certain recognized built-in losses and other carryforwards, after an “ownership change” occurs. A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Although such “ownership change” does not currently exist, other future issuances or sales of our stock (including certain transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control) could also result in an ownership change under Section 382. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of pre-change NOLs and other losses we can use to reduce our taxable income generally equal to the product of the total value of 26 our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” (subject to certain adjustments) and the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate for the month of the “ownership change.” Because U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation may effectively provide a cap on the cumulative amount of pre-ownership change losses, including certain recognized built-in losses, that may be utilized. Such pre-ownership change losses in excess of the cap may be lost. In addition, if an ownership change were to occur, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-ownership change losses and certain recognized built-in losses could cause a net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. Further, if the amount or value of these deferred tax assets is reduced, such reduction would have a negative impact on the book value of our common stock. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, requires PRC residents to register with, or obtain approval from, SAFE regarding their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. We will not be able to complete an acquisition of prospective acquisition targets in the PRC unless their financial statements are able to be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in a timely manner. Companies based in the PRC may not have properly kept financial books and records that may be reconciled with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. If we attempt to acquire a significant PRC target company and/or its assets, we would be required to obtain or prepare financial statements of the target that are prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests require the public acquirer to prepare and file historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure with the SEC. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed acquisition target does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed acquisition target. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential acquisition targets with which we may acquire and hinder our ability to expand our operations. Furthermore, if we consummate an acquisition and are unable to timely file audited financial statements and/or pro forma financial information required by the Federal securities laws, we will be ineligible to use the SEC’s short-form registration statement on Form S-3 to raise capital, if we are otherwise eligible at the time. If we are ineligible to use a Form S-3, the process of raising capital may be more expensive and time consuming and the terms of any offering transaction may not be as favorable as they would have been if we were eligible to use Form S-3. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where a substantial portion of our revenue is derived, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including quarantines or closures of some of our offices that could leave us without many employees to conduct our business which would materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial 27 and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2008, management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective due to a material weakness, which related primarily to management not adhering to controls as designed and a significant deficiency, which related to untimely booking of assets. Although we remedied these issues during the second quarter of 2009, any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance in the future could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Li Fu, our founder, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns approximately 29.5% of our outstanding share capital as of March 11, 2010. As such, Mr. Fu has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our stock. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. The payment of dividends to Fushi Copperweld from our subsidiaries is subject to legal and other contractual limitations. As a result we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies, which are located in the PRC, the US and in the UK. Under PRC law, the payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC, subject to certain statutory procedural requirements. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including each wholly foreign owned enterprise, is also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves or statutory reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50.0% of their respective registered capital. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, Copperweld’s Limited Liability Company Agreement provides for certain restrictions on distributions, in accordance with applicable law and agreements to which Copperweld may be a party. Any limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We are unlikely to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries. 28 Future issuances of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Sales by us or our stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. We may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and growth plans, to adjust our ratio of debt-to-equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options, or for other reasons, and to satisfy our funding obligations to our pension plans. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or issuance of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or the availability of shares of common stock or such other equity securities for future sale or issuance, will have on the trading price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect us and holders of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, if our financial results are below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Other factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results; operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and changes in government regulation or proposals relating to us. In addition, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Market fluctuations and broad market, economic and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Any volatility or a significant decrease in the market price of our common stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using common stock. Further, if we were to be the object of securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in our common stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results. 29 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 