ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We began the sale of copper-clad aluminum wire in 2002. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Although our revenues have grown rapidly since inception, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our rate of growth, our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including our potential failure to: 8 - expand our product offerings and maintain the high quality of our products; - maintain our proprietary copper-cladding technology for the manufacturing of bimetallic wires; - manage our expanding operations, including the integration of Copperweld Bimetallics and any future acquisitions; - maintain adequate control of our expenses; - implement our product development, marketing, sales, and acquisition strategies and adapt and modify them as needed; - anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the bimetallic products markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for and shipments of our products and changes in the prices of copper which directly affect the prices of our products and may influence the demand for our products. Therefore, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity) and various types of insurance coverage and interruptions in plant operations resulting from the interruption of raw material supplies and other factors. Some uses of our products are subject to seasonality factors which can affect our quarter to quarter results as well. Fluctuating copper prices impact our business and operating results. Copper prices, which have increased over the past several years, have varied significantly and may vary significantly in the future because the copper industry is highly volatile and cyclical in nature. This affects our business both positively and negatively - as our products are a substitute for pure copper wire, higher prices increase demand, while lower copper prices can decrease demand. Numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control, influence copper price. These factors include general economic conditions, industry capacity utilization, import duties and other trade restrictions. We cannot predict copper prices in the future or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on our future operating results. We mitigate the impact of changing raw material prices by passing changes in prices to our customers by adjusting prices at least monthly to reflect changes in raw material prices, as is customary in the industry. We may not be able to adjust our product prices rapidly enough in the short-term to recover the costs of increases in raw materials. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers. We may encounter substantial competition in our business and our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. The bimetallic industry is becoming increasingly competitive. The principal elements of competition in the bimetallic industry are, in our opinion, pricing, product availability and quality. While we believe that we have attained a leadership position with respect to all of these factors, our major competitors with substantially greater resources than us may be better able to successfully endure downturns in our industrial sector. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet competition or maintain selling prices, which may sacrifice market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced under either scenario. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our existing markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop as we expect, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. In addition, we may face challenges in managing expanding product offerings and in integrating acquired businesses with our own. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management and facilities. Failure to manage these growth and expansion could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause production backlogs, longer product development time frames and administrative inefficiencies. A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results from operations could be adversely affected and stockholder value harmed if we lose these customers. Our revenue is dependent, in large part, on significant orders from a limited number of customers. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 41%, 28.9% and 24.6% of our net sales during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006, and 2007 respectively. We believe that revenue derived from current and future large customers will continue to decline but will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. Our inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of large customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions. 9 Shortages or disruptions in the availability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business. Aluminum and steel rods and copper strips, our principal raw materials, collectively accounted for approximately 93 % of our costs of goods sold in Dalian and just over 75% for Fayetteville during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We expect that raw materials will continue to account for a significant portion of our cost of goods sold in the future. The prices of raw materials fluctuate because of general economic conditions, global supply and demand and other factors causing monthly variations in the costs of our raw materials purchases. The macro-economic factors, together with labor and other business interruptions experienced by certain suppliers, have contributed to periodic shortages in the supply of raw materials, and such shortages may increase in the future. If we are unable to procure adequate supplies of raw material to meet our future production needs and customer demand, shortages could result in a material loss of customers and revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, supply shortages or disruptions or the loss of suppliers may cause us to procure our raw materials from less cost effective sources and may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues and results of operations. We depend on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our principal raw materials and we do not have any long-term supply contracts with our raw materials suppliers. Interruptions of production at our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for most of the raw materials we use. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, purchase from our three largest suppliers of metal raw materials represented approximately 43.0% of our total raw material purchases. Interruptions or shortages of supplies from our key suppliers of raw materials could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers and we may have limited options in the short-term for alternative supply if these suppliers fail for any reason, including their business failure or financial difficulties, to continue the supply of materials or components. Moreover, identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. Interruptions at our key suppliers could negatively impact our results of operations, financial performance and the price of our common stock. Due to increased volatility of raw material prices, the timing lag between the raw material purchase and product pricing can negatively impact our profitability. Volatility in the prices of raw materials, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, our manufacturing activities are determined, and raw materials purchase scheduled, upon forecasted demand while sales prices are determined at the time of order placement, subject to adjustment at fulfillment. The lag between the point when raw materials are acquired in advance and the point when products are actually priced may impact us both positively and negatively, resulting in increased or reduced profitability. In addition, we routinely maintain a certain level of finished goods inventories to meet near term expected demand. Pricing for the sale of these inventories is generally based on current raw material prices. Rapid declines in the price of raw materials may result in our inventories being carried at costs in excess of net realizable value and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Increases in raw materials prices will increase our need for working capital. As the prices of raw materials increase, our working capital requirements increase. Increases in our working capital requirements can materially adversely impact our results of operations, our cash flow and our available liquidity to fund other business needs. Furthermore, there is no assurance we would be able to finance additional working capital requirements or finance such working capital requirements on favorable terms. If we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity and capital resources” below. Increases in raw materials prices may increase credit and default risk with respect to our customers. Increases in the price of our products, as raw material prices rise, may place additional demands on the working capital and liquidity needs of our customers. Accordingly, our customers’ cash flow may be negatively impacted which may have an adverse affect on the timing and amount of payment on our accounts receivable, which would in turn, negatively affect our results of operations. We face manufacturing challenges. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: variation in demand for our customers’ products; our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; design changes; changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategy; and acquisitions of or consolidations among customers. Due in part to these factors, many of our customers do not commit to long-term production schedules. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons and such actions could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we make significant operating decisions based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. 10 Our rapid expansion could significantly strain our resources, management and operational infrastructure which could impair our ability to meet increased demand for our products and hurt our business results. To accommodate our anticipated growth and integrate the acquisition of Copperweld Bimetallics, we will need to expend capital resources and dedicate personnel to implement and upgrade our accounting, operational and internal management systems and enhance our record keeping and contract tracking system. Such measures will require us to dedicate additional financial resources and personnel to optimize our operational infrastructure and to recruit more personnel to train and manage our growing employee base. If we cannot successfully implement these measures efficiently and cost-effectively, we will be unable to satisfy the demand for our products, which will impair our revenue growth and hurt our overall financial performance. If we fail to accurately project market demand for our products, our business expansion plan could be jeopardized and our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. We plan to increase our annual manufacturing capacity and relocate unused capacity from Fayetteville, Tennessee to Dalian, China, to meet an expected increase in demand for our products in the Asia Pacific region. Our decision to increase our manufacturing capacity was based primarily on our projected increases in our sales volume and growth in the size of the bimetallic market in China. If actual customer orders are less than our projected market demand, we may suffer overcapacity problems and may have to leave capacity idle, which can reduce our overall profitability and hurt our financial condition and results of operations. If the bimetallic industry does not grow as we expect or grows at a slower speed than we expect, our sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We derive most of profits from sales of our products in China. The continued development of our business depends, in large part, on continued growth in the bimetallic industry in China. Although China’s bimetallic industry has grown rapidly in the past, it may not continue to grow at the same growth rate in the future or at all. Any reduced demand for our products, any downturn or other adverse changes in China’s bimetallic or related industries could severely impact the profitability of our business. We face the possibility that our gross margins may decline. In response to changes in product mix, competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, introductions of new competitive products, product enhancements by our competitors, increases in manufacturing or labor costs or other operating expenses, we may experience declines in prices, gross margins and profitability. To maintain our gross margins we must maintain or increase current shipment volumes, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and reduce the costs to produce our products. If we are unable to accomplish this, our revenue, gross profit and operating results may be below our expectations and those of investors and analysts. We may encounter problems associated with our global operations. As a result of the Copperweld acquisition, a significant portion of our operations consists of manufacturing and sales activities outside of PRC, primarily in the US. Our ability to sell our products and conduct our operations globally is subject to a number of risks. Local economic, political and labor conditions in each country could adversely affect demand for our products and services or disrupt our operations in these markets. We may also experience reduced intellectual property protection or longer and more challenging collection cycles as a result of different customary business practices in certain countries where we do business. Additionally, we face the following risks: - International business conditions including the relationships between the U.S., Chinese and other governments; - Unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade, monetary or fiscal policy, including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the rate of inflation in the U.S., China or other foreign countries; - Tariffs, quotas and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers; - Difficulties in staffing and management; - Language and cultural barriers; and - Potentially adverse tax consequences. The anticipated benefits of the Copperweld transaction may not be realized. We entered the Copperweld acquisition agreement with the expectation that the acquisition will result in a number of benefits to us including, among other things: - enhanced revenues; - broader product offering; - significant savings on capital expenditures; - expansion of our global distribution and manufacturing capabilities; - operational improvements; - more effective use of our production capacity; and - diversification of our customer base. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Copperweld acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, - whether we can successfully integrate our business with Copperweld's business in an efficient and effective manner; 11 - the reaction of our existing or potential competitors to the transaction; and - general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. The anticipated synergies and cost savings of the Copperweld transaction may not be realized. The success of the combined company after the Copperweld acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings, more efficient use and location of production capacity, profitability enhancement, streamlining overheads and operating structure to optimize efficiency, building upon best practices in technology and manufacturing, reassessment of the inventory and supplier base to insure the availability of products at competitive prices. We cannot provide any assurance that these anticipated synergies and cost savings can be achieved in the amounts or during the periods expected. Further, we cannot provide any assurance that these actions can be completed without disruption to our business that the desired actions can be completed in the anticipated period of time or that anticipated improvements in operating performance can be achieved. There may be difficulty integrating Fushi's and Copperweld's businesses and substantial costs may be incurred in connection with the integration. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Copperweld acquisition will depend on the successful integration of Fushi’s and Copperweld's products, services, operations, personnel, technology and facilities in a timely and efficient manner. Although we do not anticipate material difficulties in connection with such integration, the possibility exists that difficulties could be experienced, especially given the cultural difference, time zone difference, and language differences. The time and expense associated with converting the businesses of Fushi and Copperweld to a common platform may exceed our expectations and limit or delay the intended benefits of the transaction. Similarly, the process of reallocating machinery and capacity, combining sales, marketing and manufacturing forces, consolidating administrative functions, and coordinating product and service offerings could take longer, cost more, and provide fewer benefits than initially projected. To the extent any of these events occur, the benefits of the transaction may be reduced. Integrating our business with that of Copperweld can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Before the acquisition, Fushi and Copperweld operated independently, each with its own business, products, customers, employees, culture and systems. Fushi may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating the two businesses. These difficulties, costs and delays may include: - Costs and delays in moving additional capacity from Fayetteville, TN to Dalian, China; - Costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; - Difficulties in combining research and development teams and processes; - Potential difficulty in combining the separate product technologies of Fushi and Copperweld; - Perceived adverse changes in product offerings available to customers or in customer service standards, whether or not these changes do, in fact exist; - Difficulty comparing financial reports due to differing financial and/or internal reporting systems and practices; - Diversion of management resources from the business; - The inability to retain existing customers of each company; - Reduction or loss of customer orders due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; - Challenges in retaining and integrating management and other key employees of Fushi and Copperweld; - Difficulty in coordinating operations in an effective and efficient manner; and - The inability to achieve the synergies anticipated to be realized from the acquisition on the timeline presently anticipated, or at all. After the acquisition, we may seek to combine certain operations and functions using common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including training, professional development and benefit programs. We may be unsuccessful in implementing the integration of these systems and processes in a timely and efficient manner. Any one or all of these factors may cause increased operating costs, worse than anticipated financial performance or the loss of customers and employees. Many of these factors are also outside of our control. The integration process may result in a loss of key personnel of Fushi and/or Copperweld. Fushi and Copperweld both depend on the services of their key personnel. Current and prospective employees of Fushi and Copperweld may become uncertain or dissatisfied about their changing or future roles with Fushi as the integration evolves. Uncertainty or dissatisfaction may affect the performance of such personnel adversely and the ability of each company to retain and attract key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees or the inability of Fushi or Copperweld to attract, train, and retain qualified employees could result in the loss of customers or otherwise inhibit the ability of Fushi to integrate and grow the combined businesses effectively. 12 The combination of Copperweld and Fushi may result in a loss of customers of Copperweld and/or Fushi. Some customers may seek alternative sources of product and/or services due to, among other reasons, a lack of desire to do business with our combined company or perceptions that we may not continue to support and develop certain products. Difficulties in combining operations could also result in the loss of, potential disputes or litigation with, customers. Any steps by management to counter such potential increased customer attrition may not be effective. Failure by management to retain customers could result in worse than anticipated financial performance. There may be unknown risks inherent in our acquisition of Copperweld, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business. There may be risks associated with the acquisition of Copperweld, though not expected, that may not be yet apparent. Any discovery of adverse information concerning Copperweld since we acquired the entity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we are entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time consuming or may not be successful at all. Copperweld’s ability to sustain profitability is uncertain. Prior to its acquisition by us, Copperweld incurred losses for the entire time it operated as a stand-alone business. The combined company’s ability for the Fayetteville, TN location to generate sufficient revenues and make profits is dependent in large part on its ability to move more value-added production in house, control manufacturing related costs, manage its growth related expenses, make additional capital expenditure, expand its customer base, increase sales of its current products to existing customers, enter into additional supply and manage its working capital and other financial resources. We cannot provide any assurance that improved profitability can be achieved at the Fayetteville location in the amounts or during the periods expected. We face risks associated with future investments or acquisitions. An important element of our growth strategy is to invest in or acquire businesses that will enable us, among other things, to expand our manufacturing capacity and the products we offer. However, we may be unable to identify suitable investment or acquisition candidates or may be unable to make these investments or acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. Integrating an acquired business is distracting and time consuming, as well as a potentially expensive process. The successful integration of any acquired businesses requires us to: · integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; · incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our offerings from an engineering, sales and marketing perspective; · coordinate research and development efforts; · integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and · consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine back office accounting, order processing and support functions. Geographic distance between business operations, the compatibility of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined also present significant challenges. Acquired businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. Our focus on integrating operations may also distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of Fushi Copperweld patents, which could harm our business and competitive position. We believe that other manufacturers in the PRC have been infringing our patents and are using our core technology. Although we have pursued legal remedies available in the PRC to protect our patents, we can provide no assurance that the protection afforded under the laws of the PRC is adequate to maintain our competitive position or that we will be successful in all our efforts. Our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors do not have, and will not obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in either the PRC or other countries. Enforcement and implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in the PRC may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, competitive position, business prospects, reputation and the price of our common stock. 13 There have been historical deficiencies with our internal controls and these remain areas of our internal and disclosure controls that require improvements, and we are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the Nasdaq Global Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our stock. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various Chinese environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid wastes and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the Chinese environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the Chinese government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we will have to incur additional and potentially substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in any material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend or even cease operations. Regulations promulgated by the US government, the State of Tennessee and local authorities impose environmental rules and regulations on our Fayetteville operation. Our Fayetteville plant is subject to regular reporting to and inspections by local, state and federal authorities. To date, inspections have not found our Fayetteville plant in violation of any rules or regulations. We believe that we comply in all material respects with the environmental rules imposed on our Fayetteville plant. Our internal procedures require regular monitoring of our processes to assure that we do not violate environmental standards. Failure to comply with Chinese or US environmental laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance in the PRC, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance in China. We cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. This is particularly true given our plan to significantly expand our sales into international markets, like the United States, where product liability claims are more prevalent. We carry product liability insurance for our Fayetteville operations but we have no assurance that the coverage would be sufficient in the event of a claim. We have purchased automobile insurance with third party liability coverage for our vehicles. In addition, we have purchased property insurance from China United Property Insurance Company to cover real property and plant. Except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. In the event of a significant product liability claim or other uninsured event, our financial results and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Likewise, we maintain casualty insurance for our plant and equipment in Fayetteville and Telford; however, we cannot assure you that the coverage would be sufficient to replace our equipment in the event of a catastrophe. We do not maintain a reserve fund for warranty or defective products claims. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims. Our product warranties against technical defects of our copper-clad products wires vary, depending on our purchase orders with customers. The warranties require us to replace defective components and pay for the losses customers incur from defective products or a certain percentage of the purchase price as liquidated damages for our failure to meet the specified product specifications and packaging requirements in the purchase orders. We have not established any reserve funds for potential warranty claims since historically we have experienced few warranty claims for our products so that the costs associated with our warranty claims have been low. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 We could suffer significant business interruptions. Our operations and those of our suppliers may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as the snow storm recently experienced in certain parts of China, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, or failures of our management information or other systems. If a business interruption occurs, our business could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN THE PRC Changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of that business. The PRC's economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of the PRC. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy, such as the United States. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in policies by the PRC government, including: - changes in laws, regulations or their interpretation - confiscatory taxation - restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies - expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. A majority of our operations are conducted in the PRC and more than 92.1% of our net sales for 2007 were generated from sales in the PRC. (Had Copperweld’s operations for the full year been combined with Fushi, the percentage of sales in the PRC would have approximated 63 %) Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The bimetallic wire industry in the PRC is growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. With the addition of Copperweld we are now exposed to global economic conditions. In the future, a slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments globally or in a large segment of the world can have adverse economic developments and may materially and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. Fushi International (Dalian) and Dalian Fushi are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the State of Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than investments in our subsidiaries and affiliates, Copperweld Bimetallics, LLC, Fushi International (Dalian) and Dalian Fushi. As a result of this holding company structure, we rely on dividends payments from our subsidiaries for funds. PRC regulations, which apply to Fushi International (Dalian) and Dalian Fushi, currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Fushi International (Dalian) and Dalian Fushi also are required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if Fushi International (Dalian) or Dalian Fushi incurs debt on its own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or Fushi International (Dalian) are unable to receive all of the revenues from operations or if Copperweld is unable to pay dividends to the parent, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. See also "Risk Factors--Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock -- We are unlikely to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future." 15 Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. Fushi International (Dalian) receives substantially all of its revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations, to the extent they are incurred in the future. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining foreign currency, we may be unable to pay dividends or meet obligations that may be incurred in the future that require payment in foreign currency. See "Risk Factors--Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock--We are unlikely to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future." The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. Since a significant portion of our revenues are earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi the U.S. dollar equivalent of the we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of tying the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a continuous appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation generally has been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. The following table sets forth information concerning exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar for the periods indicated. These rates are provided solely for your convenience and are not necessarily the exchange rates that we used in this presentation or will use in the preparation of our periodic reports or any other information to be provided to you. The source of these rates is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Noon Buying Rate Period Period End Average(1) Low High (RMB per US$1.00) 2002 8.2800 8.2772 8.2800 8.2700 2003 8.2767 8.2771 8.2800 8.2765 2004 8.2765 8.2768 8.2774 8.2764 2005 8.0702 8.1826 8.2765 8.0702 2006 7.8041 7.9636 8.0702 7.8041 2007 7.2946 7.5806 7.8127 7.2946 (1) Annual averages are calculated from month-end rates. Monthly averages are calculated using the average of the daily rates during the relevant period. (2) Unless otherwise noted, all translations from RMB to U.S. dollars and from U.S. dollars to RMB in this report were made in the statement of operations at 7.2947 to $1, balance sheet at 7.2939 to $1 and equity section at historical rates. 16 If preferential tax concessions granted by the PRC government are changed or expire, our financial results and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operation may be adversely affected by changes to, or expiration of, preferential tax concessions that our subsidiaries in the PRC currently enjoy. The statutory tax rate generally applicable to domestic PRC companies is 33%, including 30% state income tax and 3% local income tax. Our subsidiaries, Fushi International (Dalian) as a Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise, or WFOE, and Dalian Fushi as a “new or high-technology enterprise” located in Economic Development Zone of the Dalian City, have been subject to tax exemptions or relatively low tax rates. The estimated tax savings for the year ended December 31, 2007 without preferential tax treatment amounted to approximately $12.8 million. As the newly adopted PRC corporate income tax law comes into effect, preferential tax benefits currently granted to WFOE’s are to be phased out and we would be subject to the same tax treatment as a domestic Chinese company, applying a uniform 25% tax rate to company profits. The loss of these preferential tax treatments that are currently available to us will have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could adversely impact the price of our common stock. In addition, tax laws in China are subject to interpretation by local tax authorities. Our preferential tax treatment may not remain in effect, or may change, in which case we may be required to pay the higher income tax rate generally applicable to Chinese companies, or such other rate as is required by the laws of China. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, requires PRC residents to register with, or obtain approval from, SAFE regarding their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where a substantial portion of our revenue is derived, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including quarantines or closures of some of our offices that could leave us without many employees to conduct our business which would materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK. Our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Li Fu, our founder, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns 41.6% of our outstanding share capital as of March 14, 2008. As such, Mr. Fu has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our stock. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. 17 We are unlikely to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, particularly those in the PRC, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on its ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. See, "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC— Fushi International (Dalian) and Dalian Fushi are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us", Risk Factors-Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC— Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment" and "Market for Our Common Stock— Dividends." Due to limited liquidity, our stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market may be subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR HIGH YIELD AND CONVERTIBLE NOTES Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. On January 25, 2007, we entered a Notes Purchase Agreement with Citadel Equity Fund, LLC, as well as Indentures, a Share Pledge Agreement and an Investor Rights Agreement. The Notes Purchase Agreement relates to the purchase and sale of $40 million Guaranteed Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes Due 2012 and $20 million of 3% Guaranteed Senior Secured Convertible Notes Due 2012 (collectively “Notes”). The indentures governing our Notes contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue stock of subsidiaries, incur additional debts and create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, if there is default, and we do not maintain certain financial covenants or we do not maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) or redeem or repurchase our capital stock. If we can not satisfy the required business targets of the indentures, we also have the possibility to default. The indentures governing our Notes require us to maintain certain financial ratios and limit our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the indenture governing our Notes. The Notes and their corresponding debt could have significant consequences to investors. For example, they could: - reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; - limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements; - expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate is variable; - increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; - require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; - restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; - limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; - limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and - place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows, and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or deplete our working capital, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt, or declare bankruptcy. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, the value realized on such assets or operations will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers. Accordingly, we may be forced to sell at an unfavorable price. We have pledged the shares of our subsidiaries as security for the Notes and upon a default, we could lose those securities and therefore, our business. Pursuant to our Share Pledge Agreement, we have pledged the shares of our wholly owned subsidiary, Fushi Holdings, and its shares of Fushi International (Dalian) as security for our obligations under the Notes. In the event of a default, we could lose the shares of our subsidiaries and therefore, a major portion of our business, to the holders of the Notes which would materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. 18 The issuance of shares upon conversion of the Convertible Notes may result in substantial dilution and may depress the market price of our common stock. As of March 14, 2008, we had 27,454,161 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, including 2,142,857 shares converted from the $15 million out of the $20 million Convertible Notes held by Citadel. The balance $5 million Convertible Notes are convertible into 714,286 additional shares should Citadel elect to convert in the future. Due to the conversion or the likelihood of conversion, our ordinary shareholders may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. Further, the perception that such convertible securities have been converted could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. In addition, during the time that the foregoing Convertible Notes are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional capital. Future sales by us or our existing shareholders could depress the market price of our common shares. If we or our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or if we sell additional securities that are convertible into common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that we or our existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our ordinary stock. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 