Risk Factors-Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC— Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment" and "Market for Our Common Stock— Dividends." Due to limited liquidity, our stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market may be subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR HIGH YIELD AND CONVERTIBLE NOTES Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. On January 25, 2007, we entered a Notes Purchase Agreement with Citadel Equity Fund, LLC, as well as Indentures, a Share Pledge Agreement and an Investor Rights Agreement. The Notes Purchase Agreement relates to the purchase and sale of $40 million Guaranteed Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes Due 2012 and $20 million of 3% Guaranteed Senior Secured Convertible Notes Due 2012 (collectively “Notes”). The indentures governing our Notes contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue stock of subsidiaries, incur additional debts and create liens on our assets to secure debt. These covenants and ratios could also have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. The Notes and their corresponding debt could have significant consequences to investors. For example, they could: · reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements; · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. We have previously experienced payment delays due to delays in conversion from RMB to USD caused by the tightened controls under SAFE. While the Company is now current in its payment obligations, any delay in paying interest, if extended, raises the possibility of the potential acceleration of the maturity of the Notes. If the Company experiences future payment delays or otherwise violates the terms of the Notes, the holders of the Notes could accelerate the maturity of the Notes and the Company’s liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. 28 In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows, and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or deplete our working capital, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt, or declare bankruptcy. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, the value realized on such assets or operations will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers. Accordingly, we may be forced to sell at an unfavorable price. We have pledged the shares of our subsidiaries as security for the Notes and, upon a default, we could lose those securities and therefore, our business. Pursuant to our Share Pledge Agreement, we have pledged the shares of our wholly owned subsidiary, Fushi Holdings, and its shares of Fushi International (Dalian) as security for our obligations under the Notes. In the event of a default, we could lose the shares of our subsidiaries and therefore, a major portion of our business, to the holders of the Notes which would materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. The issuance of shares upon conversion of the Convertible Notes after reset of conversion price and occurrence of Financial and Operational Trigger may result in substantial dilution. The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holder into the Company’s common stock at an initial conversion price of $7 per share (approximating 14,286 shares per $100,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes). On January 8, 2008, Citadel Equity Fund Ltd. exercised its rights under the CB indenture and received 2,142,857 shares in exchange for $15.0 million in debt with an exchange factor of $7.00 in debt for each share of stock. The balance $5 million Convertible Notes are convertible with the conversion price subject to downward adjustment occurring on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning with March 1, 2008, to equal the simple arithmetic average of VWAP for the fifteen trading days preceding such March 1 or September1, with a floor of $4.5. In addition, adjustment of conversion price will be made if and at each time, upon completion of the quarter review (for each Fiscal Quarter ended March 31, June 30 and September 30) or annual audit (for each Fiscal Quarter ended December 31) of the Company’s financial statements an event defined as Financial and Operational Trigger under the CB indenture shall have occurred in the immediately preceding Fiscal Quarter, then within five (5) Business Days following issuance of the review or audit report, as the case may be, for such Fiscal Quarter. The Financial and Operational Trigger means, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, that net income for a Fiscal Quarter shall be less than the US dollar amount indicated in the table below opposite such Fiscal Quarter: Fiscal Quarter Ending Net Income June 30, 2007 $ 5.0 million September 30, 2007 $ 5.0 million December 31, 2007 $ 5.0 million March 31, 2008 $ 6.0 million June 30, 2008 $ 6.0 million September 30, 2008 $ 6.0 million December 31, 2008 $ 6.0 million March 31, 2009 $ 7.2 million June 30, 2009 $ 7.2 million September 30, 2009 $ 7.2 million December 31, 2009 $ 7.2 million Upon review of our financial statements, we determined that a Financial and Operational Trigger as defined under the CB indenture occurred in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. To the extent a conversion occurs, the Company shall be required to deliver approximately 140,000 additional shares of the Company’s common stock to the holder of the Convertible Notes by increasing the conversion rate with respect to such notes. Further, the Company cannot provide assurance that Financial and Operational Trigger may not occur again in future fiscal quarters especially under challenging macro-economic conditions and difficult operating environments like the current one which are circumstances beyond the control of the Company. 29 To the extent conversion occurs under the above mentioned circumstances, our ordinary shareholders may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. In addition, during the time that the foregoing Convertible Notes are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional capital. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 