ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. In the recent few years, the capital and credit markets had experienced extreme volatility and disruption, which had resulted in extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments, declining valuations of others, severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to utilize our current credit facilities and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies such that our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations might be impaired in the future. Adverse market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Demand for our products is vulnerable to economic downturns. The worsening of economic condition could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products. We are unable to predict global adverse economic conditions and the effect such events might have on our business. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or early termination of sales contracts due to the current deterioration in economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control, including customer demand and raw materials pricing. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for our products and changes in the price of copper, which directly affects the prices of our products and may influence demand. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, our operating results each quarter could be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity), and interruptions in plant operations. Some uses of our products are subject to seasonality factors which can affect our quarter to quarter results as well. Fluctuating copper prices impact our business and operating results. The copper industry is highly volatile and cyclical. Copper prices have varied significantly and are likely to continue to vary significantly in the future. This affects our business both positively and negatively. Since our products are a substitute for pure copper wire, higher copper prices increase demand for our products, while lower copper prices can decrease demand. Numerous factors influence copper price. These factors include general economic conditions, industry capacity utilization, import duties and other trade restrictions. We cannot predict copper prices in the future or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on our future operating results. We mitigate the impact of changing raw material prices by attempting to pass changes in prices to our customers by adjusting prices at least monthly to reflect changes in raw material prices, as is customary in the industry. We may not be able to adjust our product prices rapidly enough in the short-term to recover the costs of increases in raw materials. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers. We may encounter substantial competition in our business and our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. The bimetallic industry is becoming increasingly competitive in China. The principal elements of competition in the bimetallic industry are, in our opinion, pricing, payment terms, product availability and quality. While we believe that we have attained a leadership position with respect to all of these factors, our major competitors with substantially greater resources than us may be better able to successfully endure downturns in our industrial sector. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet the competition or maintain selling prices, which may sacrifice market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced under either scenario. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets continue to grow and develop as we expect, it will be necessary for us to manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in managing expanding product offerings and in integrating acquired businesses with our own, which may increase demands on our existing management and facilities. Failure to manage this growth and expansion could interrupt or adversely affect our operations, cause production backlogs, longer product development time frames and administrative inefficiencies. A significant portion of our sales are derived from a limited number of customers, and results from operations could be adversely affected and stockholder value harmed if we lose these customers. Our revenue is dependent, in large part, on significant orders from a limited number of customers. Our top five customers represented 21.1%, 14.1% and 15.2% of our total revenues for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We believe that revenue derived from current and future large customers will continue to decline as we increase our efforts to diversify our business and reduce customer concentration, but will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues. Our inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, our future success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our existing customers and general economic conditions. 11 Shortages or disruptions in the availability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business. Aluminum and steel rods and copper strips, our principal raw materials, collectively accounted for approximately 88.6% of our costs of sales in 2011. We expect that raw materials will continue to account for a significant portion of our cost of sales in the future. The prices of raw materials fluctuate because of general economic conditions, global supply and demand and other factors causing monthly variations in the costs of our raw materials purchases. The macro-economic factors, together with labor and other business interruptions experienced by certain suppliers, have contributed to periodic shortages in the supply of raw materials, and such shortages may increase in the future. If we are unable to procure adequate supplies of raw material to meet our future production needs and customer demand, shortages could result in a material loss of customers and revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, supply shortages or disruptions or the loss of suppliers may cause us to procure our raw materials from less cost effective sources and may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues and results of operations. We depend on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our principal raw materials and we do not have any long-term supply contracts with our raw materials suppliers. Interruptions of production at our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for most of the raw materials we use. Purchases from our five largest suppliers of metal raw materials represented approximately 66.3%, 58.1% and 60.5% of our total raw material purchases for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Interruptions or shortages of supplies from our key suppliers of raw materials could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers and we may have limited options in the short-term for alternative supply if these suppliers fail for any reason, including their business failure or financial difficulties, to continue the supply of raw materials. Moreover, identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. Interruptions at our key suppliers could negatively impact our results of operations, financial performance and the price of our common stock. Due to increased volatility of raw material prices, the timing lag between the raw material purchase and product pricing can negatively impact our profitability. Volatility in the prices of raw materials, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, our manufacturing activities are determined, and raw materials purchases scheduled, upon forecasted demand, while sales prices are determined at the time of order placement, subject to adjustment at fulfillment. The lag between the point when raw materials are acquired in advance and the point when products are actually priced may impact us both positively and negatively, resulting in increased or reduced profitability. In addition, we routinely maintain a certain level of finished goods inventories to meet near term expected demand. Pricing for the sale of these inventories is generally based on current raw material prices. Rapid declines in the price of raw materials may result in our inventories being carried at costs in excess of net realizable value and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our common stock. We rely on short-term financing from banks for our daily operation in US segment From time to time, we rely on short-term borrowings to fund our operations in our US segment. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debt, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt service, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. We have lines of credit in our US segment to finance working capital needs. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay these borrowings. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivable could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and results of operations. A substantial portion of our working capital needs consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for our products, or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could materially adversely affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collections costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could affect our cash flow and working capital position and could also impact the cost or availability of financing available to us. We face manufacturing challenges due to difficulties in forecasting customer demand. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to: variation in demand for our customers’ products; our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory; design changes; changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategy; and acquisitions of or consolidations among customers. Due in part to these factors, many of our customers do not commit to long-term production schedules. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons and such actions could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, we make significant operating decisions based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. 12 We may encounter problems associated with our global operations. A significant portion of our operations consists of manufacturing and sales activities outside of the US, primarily in the PRC. Our ability to sell our products and conduct our operations globally is subject to a number of risks. Local economic and political conditions in each country, as well as labor conditions in the PRC, the UK, and Belgium, where we have facilities, could adversely affect demand for our products and services or disrupt our operations in these markets. We may also experience reduced intellectual property protection or longer and more challenging collection cycles as a result of different customary business practices in certain countries where we do business. Additionally, we face the following risks: - International business conditions including the relationships between the U.S., the PRC and other governments; - Unexpected changes in laws, regulations, trade, monetary or fiscal policy, including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the rate of inflation in the U.S., the PRC or other foreign countries; - Tariffs, quotas and other import or export restrictions and other trade barriers; - Difficulties in staffing and management; - Language and cultural barriers; and - Potentially adverse tax consequences. . Copperweld’s ability to sustain profitability is uncertain. Prior to acquiring Copperweld, it incurred losses for the entire time it operated as a stand-alone business. Copperweld’s ability to generate sufficient revenues and make profits is dependent in large part on its ability to move more value-added production in house, control manufacturing related costs, manage its growth related expenses, make additional capital expenditures, expand its customer base, increase sales of its current products to existing customers, enter into additional supply arrangements and manage its working capital and other financial resources. Although the implemention of cost reduction initiatives at Copperweld resulted in a net income of $0.4 million in 2011, we cannot provide any assurance that improved profitability can continue and be sustained at Copperweld in the amounts or during the periods expected. We face risks associated with future investments or acquisitions. An important element of our growth strategy is to invest in or acquire businesses that will enable us, among other things, to expand our manufacturing capacity and the products we offer. However, we may be unable to identify suitable investment or acquisition candidates or may be unable to make these investments or acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not immediately realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction, if at all. Integrating an acquired business is distracting and time consuming, as well as a potentially expensive process. The successful integration of any acquired businesses requires us to: - integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; - incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our offerings from an engineering, business development, sales and marketing perspective; - coordinate research and development efforts; - integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and - consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine back office accounting, order processing and support functions Geographic distance between business operations, the compatibility of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined also present significant challenges. Acquired businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. Our focus on integrating operations may also distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights may significantly and materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is important to our business. We generally rely on a combination of the patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC, the U.S. and certain other countries in which our products are produced or sold, as well as licenses and nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. The patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of some countries, though, including the PRC, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable proprietary technologies. Additionally, some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application and, even if a patent application has been filed, it may not result in an issued patent. If patents are issued to us, those patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. In addition, upon the expiration of patents issued to us, we will be unable to prevent our competitors from using or introducing products using the formerly-patented technology. As a result, we may be faced with increased competition and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. 13 We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements that are important to our business with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. We could also face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, to redesign our products partially or completely, to pay to use the technology of others or to stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product(s) entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prompt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. We may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products. We rely on an exclusive third-party license agreement for patents and technology related to certain of our products, and the termination or material impairment of our rights under that agreement could impede or prevent us from being able to produce or commercialize our products, significantly impacting our competitive position, sales, revenue and growth strategy. A portion of our business is dependent on a worldwide exclusive license of certain patents and technology related to the production of bimetallic rods and wire from kabelmetal electro GmbH (now Nexans Deutschland Industries GmbH & Co. KG) (“Nexans”). This license imposes certain obligations upon us, including an obligation to make royalty payments to Nexans on certain sales of licensed products. If we fail to fulfill one or more of our obligations under this agreement, and do not adequately cure the breach in a timely manner, or we and Nexans otherwise become involved in a dispute, the breach or dispute could result in the termination of, or could otherwise have a material adverse impact on, our rights under the Nexans license agreement. While we would expect to exercise all rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to timely cure any breach, resolve any dispute, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the Nexans patents and technology, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. If our rights under the Nexans license agreement are terminated or materially impaired, we may not be able to develop similar alternative technology or to negotiate a new license agreement for similar technology with another licensor on reasonable terms or at all. Upon the expiration of any of the Nexans patents exclusively licensed to us, we will be unable to prevent our competitors from using or introducing products using the formerly-patented technology. As a result, we may be faced with increased competition. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products or more advanced replacement products prior to the expiration of the Nexans patents exclusively licensed to us, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In such event, the quality of our products may suffer, our competitive advantage in the market may be significantly diminished, our revenue may significantly decrease and we may not be able to develop or maintain our customer and strategic relationships. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various Chinese environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid wastes and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the Chinese environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the Chinese government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we will have to incur additional and potentially substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in any material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend or even cease operations. Regulations promulgated by the US government, the State of Tennessee and local authorities impose environmental rules and regulations on our Fayetteville operation. Our Fayetteville plant is subject to regular reporting to and inspections by local, state and federal authorities. To date, inspections have not found our Fayetteville plant in violation of any rules or regulations. We believe that we comply in all material respects with the environmental rules imposed on our Fayetteville plant. Our recent lease with an option to purchase facility in Europe has an environmental baseline established and covered by the government. Our internal procedures require regular monitoring of our processes to assure that we do not violate environmental standards. Failure to comply with Chinese, US or EU environmental laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance in the PRC, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance in the PRC. We cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. This is particularly true given our plan to significantly expand our sales into international markets, like the U.S., where product liability claims are more prevalent. We carry product liability insurance for our Fayetteville operations but we have no assurance that the coverage would be sufficient in the event of a claim. 14 We have purchased automobile insurance with third party liability coverage for our vehicles. In addition, we have purchased property insurance from China United Property Insurance Company to cover real property and plant. Except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. In the event of a significant product liability claim or other uninsured event, our financial results and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Likewise, we maintain casualty insurance for our plant and equipment in Fayetteville and Telford; however, we cannot assure you that the coverage would be sufficient to replace our equipment in the event of a catastrophe. We do not maintain a reserve for warranty or defective products claims. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims. Our product warranties against technical defects of our copper-clad products wires vary, depending on our sales orders with customers. The warranties require us to replace defective components and pay for the losses customers incur from defective products or a certain percentage of the selling price as liquidated damages for our failure to meet the specified product specifications and packaging requirements in the sales orders. We have not established any reserves for potential warranty claims since historically we have experienced few warranty claims for our products so that the costs associated with our warranty claims have been low. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could suffer significant business interruptions. Our operations and those of our suppliers may be vulnerable to interruption by natural disasters such as the earthquake experienced in Sichuan province of the PRC in May 2008, or other disasters such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism or war, or government imposed restriction or reduction on industrial manufacturing activities such as the one during the Olympics from August to September 2008. If a business interruption occurs, our business could be materially and adversely affected. There may be unknown risks inherent in our acquisition of Jinchuan, which could have a significant impact on our financial results. There may be risks associated with the acquisition of Jinchuan, though not expected or anticipated, that may not yet be apparent. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Jinchuan contributed approximately 11.0 % to our total revenues. Any discovery of adverse information concerning Jinchuan since the acquisition, depending upon the nature of such information, could have an adverse impact on the growth opportunities in the utilities market, which we believe are presented to us by Jinchuan’s business, and the results of operations for our PRC segment. While we are entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time consuming or may not be successful at all. There may be unknown risks inherent in our acquisition of Shanghai Hongtai, which could have a significant impact on our financial results. There may be risks associated with the acquisition of Shanghai Hongtai, though not expected or anticipated, that may not yet be apparent. Any discovery of adverse information concerning Shanghai Hongtai since the acquisition, depending upon the nature of such information, could have an adverse impact on growth opportunities, which we believe are presented to us by Shanghai Hongtai’s business and assets, and the results of operations for our PRC segment. While we are entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time consuming or may not be successful at all. An Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a Reduction in Our Liquidity We have entered into a secured credit agreement (the “Regions Bank credit facility) with Regions Bank (the “Lender”) which provides for a $4.5 million revolving credit facility and a term facility of up to $6.5 million. We rely on the Regions Bank credit facility as a potential source of liquidity for our U.S. operating entities. The availability of this credit facility could be critical to our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market where alternative sources of credit are tight. The credit facility contains certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. We must comply with covenants under the Regions Bank credit facility including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum tangible net worth. Our right to make borrowings under the Regions Bank credit facility is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under the Regions Bank credit facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the Lender to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the Regions Bank credit facility or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of the Lender to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facility, would restrict our ability to access the credit facility when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In Europe, we have two credit facilities, a line of credit for working capital purposes, and a 3 year term loan with a bullet maturity. Like our credit facilities in the U.S., these credit facilities are subject to the fulfillment of certain covenants and the ability of the line of credit lender to fund their lending commitments. 15 We rely on contractual arrangements with Dalian Fushi and its stockholders for our operations in the PRC, which may not be as effective in providing control over Dalian Fushi as direct ownership. We have no equity ownership interest in Dalian Fushi, and rely on contractual arrangements with Dalian Fushi and its stockholders to control Dalian Fushi. Dalian Fushi holds the titles of an office building and land use rights on behalf of us and does not conduct any business operation. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over Dalian Fushi as direct ownership would be. For example, Dalian Fushi could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Dalian Fushi, or any of its stockholders, fails to perform their respective obligations under agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective. Our contractual arrangements with Dalian Fushi are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in the U.S. and uncertainties in the Chinese legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Key employees are essential to growing our business. Our co-Chief Executive Officers, Mr. Li Fu and Mr. Joseph J. Longever are essential to our ability to continue to grow our business. Mr. Fu, Mr. Longever and our other key employees have established relationships within the industries in which we operate. We do not maintain, or intend to maintain, key person life insurance for any of our officers or key employees. If any of them were to leave us, our growth strategy might be hindered, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. In addition, we face competition for attracting skilled personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel to meet current and future needs, this could slow our ability to grow our business, which could result in a decrease in market share. We are a defendant in certain shareholder class action lawsuits and an adverse result in any of these actions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and certain of our current officers and directors are defendants in various shareholder class action lawsuits. These lawsuits are described in Part I Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations by these lawsuits and we may incur significant expenses associated with the defense of these lawsuits (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such action). Depending on the outcome of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay material damages and fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity, our ability to meet our debt obligations and, consequently, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN THE PRC Changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of that business. The PRC's economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of the PRC. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy, such as the United States. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in policies by the PRC government, including: ·changes in laws, regulations or their interpretation ·confiscatory taxation ·restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies ·expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. 16 The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses in the future. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our products and our business. A majority of our operations are conducted in the PRC and approximately 81% of our total revenues in 2011 were generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot ensure that such growth will continue. The bimetallic wire industry in the PRC is growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. Controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency have made it more difficult to make payments in U.S. dollars and fund business and operating activities of our subsidiaries located outside of the PRC. A significant portion of our cash is RMB. Tightened restrictions on currency exchanges has considerably limited our ability to convert our cash in RMB to make payments in U.S. dollars or fund business and operating activities of our subsidiaries located outside of The PRC, which has had the most significant impact on our ability to support Copperweld’s operations in Fayetteville, TN. Although as of December 31, 2011, our PRC subsidiaries could legally pay approximately $268.6 million in dividends, our PRC subsidiaries have never paid dividends to our non-PRC subsidiaries and parent company and we plan to reinvest our PRC earnings indefinitely. Historically, Fushi International (Dalian) has provided financial support to our non-PRC subsidiaries and our parent company to meet their cash requirements by transferring cash to those entities. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to the approval of the PRC State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and other relevant authorities, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot assure you that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose new or more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Any adverse actions by SAFE could affect our ability to get cash, by means of loans or capital contributions, to our parent company and our non-PRC subsidiaries in order to fund operations. The fluctuation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, and operating condition. The value of the RMB against the USD and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. Since a significant portion of our revenues are earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert USD we receive from an offering of our securities into RMB for our PRC’s operations, appreciation of the RMB against the USD could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into USD for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the USD appreciates against the RMB the USD equivalent of the amount we convert would be reduced. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of tying the value of the RMB to the USD. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a continuous appreciation of the RMB against the USD. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation generally has been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. The following table sets forth information concerning exchange rates between the RMB and the USD for the periods indicated. These rates are provided solely for your convenience and are not necessarily the exchange rates that we used in this presentation or will use in the preparation of our periodic reports or any other information to be provided to you. The source of these rates is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 17 Noon Buying Rate Period Period End Average(1) Low High (RMB per US$1.00) 2005 8.0702 8.1826 8.2765 8.0702 2006 7.8041 7.9636 8.0702 7.8041 2007 7.2946 7.6058 7.8127 7.2946 2008 6.8225 6.9477 7.2946 6.7800 2009 6.8259 6.8307 6.8470 6.8176 2010 6.6000 6.7696 6.8330 6.6000 2011 6.2941 6.4197 6.5484 6.2941 (1)Annual averages are calculated from month-end rates. Monthly averages are calculated using the average of the daily rates during the relevant period. PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock, and may also create uncertainties in the future. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE,” issued a public notice in November 2005, known as Circular 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies in mergers and acquisitions in the PRC. The public notice provides that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also suggests that registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of shares in an offshore holding company that owns an onshore company. The PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in the PRC to guarantee offshore obligations. On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises (the “Revised M&A Regulations”), which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised the PRC’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in the PRC and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. Among other things, the revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Dacheng Law Firm, has advised us that because we completed our onshore-to-offshore restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our common stock does not require CSRC approval. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our restructuring, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, published news reports in the PRC recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of Circular 75 and the Revised M&A Regulations. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. 18 On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. We intend, from time to time, to grant stock options under our equity incentive plan to our officers and directors, some of whom are PRC citizens and may be required to register with SAFE. In addition to our officers and directors that received option grants, future participants of our equity incentive plan or any other equity compensation plan we may adopt who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be adversely affected. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, requires PRC residents to register with, or obtain approval from, SAFE regarding their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange Regulations regarding offshore investing activities by PRC residents have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. The failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where a substantial portion of our revenue is derived, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including quarantines or closures of some of our offices that could leave us without many employees to conduct our business which would materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Li Fu, our founder, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owns approximately 28.9% of our outstanding share capital as of March 14, 2012. As such, Mr. Fu has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our stock. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. The payment of dividends to Fushi Copperweld from our subsidiaries is subject to legal and other contractual limitations. As a result we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies, which are located in the PRC, the US and in the UK. Under PRC law, the payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC, subject to certain statutory procedural requirements. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including each wholly foreign owned enterprise, is also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves or statutory reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50.0% of their respective registered capital. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 19 We are unlikely to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries. Future issuances of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Sales by us or our stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. We may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and growth plans, to adjust our ratio of debt-to-equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options, or for other reasons, and to satisfy our funding obligations to our pension plans. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or issuance of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or the availability of shares of common stock or such other equity securities for future sale or issuance, will have on the trading price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect us and holders of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, if our financial results are below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Other factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results; operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and changes in government regulation or proposals relating to us. In addition, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Market fluctuations and broad market, economic and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Any volatility or a significant decrease in the market price of our common stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using common stock. Further, if we were to be the object of securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in our common stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results. Provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes may discourage a change of control. We are incorporated in Nevada. Certain provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, or NRS, could delay or make more difficult a change of control transaction or other business combination that may be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to Nevada’s “Combinations With Interested Stockholders” statutes (NRS Sections 78.411 through 78.444), which provide that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a Nevada corporation with at least 200 stockholders cannot engage in specified business combinations with the corporation for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested stockholder is approved by the corporation’s Board of Directors before the person first became an interested stockholder. Nevada’s “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes (NRS Sections 78.378–78.3793) apply only to Nevada corporations with at least 200 stockholders, including at least 100 stockholders of record who are Nevada residents, and which conduct business directly or indirectly in Nevada. As of the date of this prospectus, we do not believe we have 100 stockholders of record who are residents of Nevada, although there can be no assurance that in the future the “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes will not apply to us. The “Acquisition of Controlling Interest” statutes provide that persons who acquire a “controlling interest”, as defined in NRS Section 78.3785, in a company may only be given full voting rights in their shares if such rights are conferred by the disinterested stockholders of the company at an annual or special meeting. However, any disinterested stockholder that does not vote in favor of granting such voting rights is entitled to demand that the company pay fair value for their shares, if the acquiring person has acquired at least a majority of all of the voting power of the company. As such, persons acquiring a controlling interest may not be able to vote their shares. 20 There can be no assurance that the buyout proposal made by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Li Fu ("Mr. Fu") and Abax Global Capital (Hong Kong) Limited on behalf of funds managed by it and its affiliates ("Abax") will be completed. On November 3, 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors received a proposal from its Chairman and co-Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Li Fu ("Mr. Fu") and Abax Global Capital (Hong Kong) Limited on behalf of funds managed by it and its affiliates ("Abax") for Mr. Fu and Abax to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Fushi not owned by Mr. Fu and his affiliates in a going private transaction for $11.50 per share in cash, subject to certain conditions (the “Initial Fu Proposal”). On November 17, 2011, the Special Committee of the Board of Directors formed to evaluate the Initial Fu Proposal received a revised proposal from Mr. Fu and Abax for the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of Fushi not currently owned by Mr. Fu and his affiliates or Abax in a going private transaction for $9.25 per share in cash, subject to certain conditions. On December 28, 2011, the Special Committee received a further revised proposal from Mr. Fu, Abax and TPG Growth Asia, Inc. (an affiliate of TPG Capital, L.P.) ("TPG"), for the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of Fushi not currently owned by Mr. Fu and his affiliates or Abax in a going private transaction for $9.50 per share in cash through an acquisition vehicle formed for the purpose of completing the acquisition, subject to certain conditions (the “Current Fu Proposal”). According to the proposal letter with respect to the Current Fu Proposal, Mr. Fu, Abax and TPG plan to finance the acquisition with a senior term loan from China Development Bank Corporation and the proceeds from an equity investment from Abax and an equity investment and/or mezzanine debt financing from certain investment funds affiliated with TPG. Following receipt of the Current Fu Proposal, the Special Committee announced that, consistent with its fiduciary duties and in consultation with its independent legal and financial advisors, it will carefully review the revised proposal to determine the course of action that it believes is in the best interests of the Company and all Fushi shareholders that are not participating in the buyout proposal. There can be no assurance that any definitive agreement will be executed with respect to the Current Fu Proposal or that this or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. Techniques Employed by Manipulative Short Sellers in Chinese Stocks May Drive Down the Market Price of Our Common Stock Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller’s best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as “disclosed shorts”) publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. While traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (“blogging”) have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company’s credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called research reports that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firm and independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers with business operations based in the PRC and who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than U.S. domestic large-cap stocks, can be particularly vulnerable to such short attacks. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to the certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation AC (Regulation Analyst Certification) and the opinions they express may be based on distortions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications. The financial information contained in the Company’s PRC subsidiaries’ filings with the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) are consistent with the financial information contained in the Company’s SEC filing. However, the Company believes there may be fabricated SAIC reports which may be used by the short sellers to attack the Company. While we intend to strongly defend our public filings against any such short seller attacks, oftentimes we are constrained, either by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law (often called “Anti-SLAPP statutes”), or issues of commercial confidentiality, in the manner in which we can proceed against the relevant short seller. You should be aware that in light of the relative freedom to operate that such persons enjoy – oftentimes blogging from outside the U.S. with little or no assets or identity requirements – should we be targeted for such an attack, our stock will likely suffer from a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in market price should the rumors created not be dismissed by market participants. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 