Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. We update our descriptions of the risks and uncertainties facing us in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. The current economic crisis and uncertain political conditions could harm our revenues, operating results and financial condition. The economies of the United States and other developed countries are currently in a recession. We cannot predict either the depth or the duration of this economic downturn. This recession has caused a decline in our near term revenues and it will take some time to return to our previous levels. The sale of our storage business could increase this time period. Our current operating plans are based on assumptions concerning levels of consumer and corporate spending. If global and domestic economic and market conditions persist or deteriorate further, we may experience further material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. If economic conditions worsen, we may have to implement additional cost reduction measures or delay certain research and development spending. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Our portfolio primarily includes fixed income securities mutual funds and preferred stocks, the values of which are subject to market price volatility. The deterioration of these market prices has had an unfavorable impact on our portfolio and has caused us to record impairment charges to our earnings. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges of $17.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively. If the market prices continue to decline or securities continue to be in a loss position over time, we may recognize additional impairments in the fair value of our investments. Adverse economic and market conditions could also harm our business by negatively affecting the parties with whom we do business, including our business partners, our customers and our suppliers. These conditions could impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased from us. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from our customers may increase. In addition, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply us with the parts we need to manufacture our products. We have invested in privately-held companies, many of which can still be considered in startup or developmental stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose all or substantially all of the value of our investments in these companies, and in some cases we have lost all or substantially all of the value of our investment in such entities. 12 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline. Some of the factors that affect our quarterly and annual results, but which are difficult to control or predict, are: • communications, information technology and semiconductor industry conditions; • fluctuations in the timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments; • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers, including as a result of slowing demand for our products or our customers’ products or over-ordering of our products or our customers’ products; • changes in the mix of products that our customers buy; • the gain or loss of one or more key customers or their key customers, or significant changes in the financial condition of one or more of our key customers or their key customers; • our ability to introduce, certify and deliver new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the announcement or introduction of products and technologies by our competitors; • competitive pressures on selling prices; • the ability of our customers to obtain components from their other suppliers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • fluctuations in manufacturing output, yields or other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products or our customers’ products; • increases in the costs of products or discontinuance of products by suppliers; • the availability of external foundry capacity, contract manufacturing services, purchased parts and raw materials including packaging substrates; • problems or delays that we and our foundries may face in shifting the design and manufacture of our future generations of IC products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design and device integration; • the amounts and timing of costs associated with warranties and product returns; • the amounts and timing of investments in research and development; • the amounts and timing of the costs associated with payroll taxes related to stock option exercises or settlement of restricted stock units; • costs associated with acquisitions and the integration of acquired companies, products and technologies; • the impact of potential one-time charges related to purchased intangibles; • our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies, products and technologies; • the impact on interest income of a significant use of our cash for an acquisition, stock repurchase or other purpose; • the effects of changes in interest rates or credit worthiness on the value and yield of our short-term investment portfolio; • costs associated with compliance with applicable environmental, other governmental or industry regulations including costs to redesign products to comply with those regulations or lost revenue due to failure to comply in a timely manner; • the effects of changes in accounting standards; 13 Table of Contents • costs associated with litigation, including without limitation, attorney fees, litigation judgments or settlements, relating to the use or ownership of intellectual property or other claims arising out of our operations; • our ability to identify, hire and retain senior management and other key personnel; • the effects of war, acts of terrorism or global threats, such as disruptions in general economic activity and changes in logistics and security arrangements; and • global economic recession and industry conditions. Our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed if we do not achieve anticipated revenues. We can have revenue shortfalls for a variety of reasons, including: • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; • declines in the average selling prices of our products; • delays when our customers are transitioning from old products to new products; • a decrease in demand for our products or our customers’ products; • a decline in the financial condition or liquidity of our customers or their customers; • delays in the availability of our products or our customers’ products; • the failure of our products to be qualified in our customers’ systems or certified by our customers; • excess inventory of our products held by our customers, resulting in a reduction in their order patterns as they work through the excess inventory of our products; • fabrication, test, product yield, or assembly constraints for our products that adversely affect our ability to meet our production obligations; • the failure of one of our subcontract manufacturers to perform its obligations to us; • our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies, products and technologies; • shortages of raw materials or production capacity constraints that lead our suppliers to allocate available supplies or capacity to other customers, which may disrupt our ability to meet our production obligations; and • global economic recession and industry conditions. Our business is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules. Customer orders typically can be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer. Because we do not have substantial non-cancellable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which is highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Customer orders for our products typically have non-standard lead times, which make it difficult for us to predict revenues and plan inventory levels and production schedules. If we are unable to plan inventory levels and production schedules effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside contract manufacturers, suppliers and foundries, we may order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering has in the past and may in the future result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors render our products less marketable. If we are forced to hold excess inventory or we incur unanticipated inventory write-downs, our financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based on our expectations of future revenues. We have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Changes to production volumes and impact of overhead absorption may result in a decline in our financial condition or liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Our business substantially depends upon the continued growth of the technology sector and the Internet. The technology equipment industry is cyclical and has in the past experienced significant and extended downturns. The current downturn is significant and we cannot predict how long it will last. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the continued growth of the technology sector and the Internet. We sell our communications IC products primarily to communications equipment manufacturers that in turn sell their equipment to customers that depend on the growth of the Internet. The current downturn has already caused a reduction in capital spending on information technology. If this reduction continues or deepens, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. The loss of one or more key customers, the diminished demand for our products from a key customer, or the failure to obtain certifications from a key customer or its distribution channel could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. A relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues in any particular period. We have no long-term volume purchase commitments from our key customers. One or more of our key customers may discontinue operations as a result of consolidation, liquidation or otherwise. Reductions, delays and cancellation of orders from our key customers or the loss of one or more key customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. We cannot assure you that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. Our ability to maintain or increase sales to key customers and attract significant new customers is subject to a variety of factors, including: • customers may stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and may suffer little or no penalty as a result of such action; • customers or prospective customers may not incorporate our products into their future product designs; • design wins (as explained below) with customers or prospective customers may not result in sales to such customers; • the introduction of new products by customers may occur later or be less successful in the market than planned; • we may successfully design a product to customer specifications but the customer may not be successful in the market; • sales of customer product lines incorporating our products may rapidly decline or such product lines may be phased out; • our agreements with customers typically are non-exclusive and do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • many of our customers have pre-existing relationships with our current or potential competitors that may cause our customers to switch from using our products to using competing products; • some of our OEM customers may develop products internally that would replace our products; • we may not be able to successfully develop relationships with additional network equipment vendors; • our relationships with some of our larger customers may deter other potential customers (who compete with these customers) from buying our products; • the impact of terminating certain sales representatives or sales personnel as a result of a Company workforce reduction or otherwise; and • some of our customers and prospective customers may become less viable or fail. 15 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one of the factors above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no guarantee that design wins will become actual orders and sales. A “design win” occurs when a customer or prospective customer notifies us that our product has been selected to be integrated with the customer’s product. There can be delays of several months or more between the design win and when a customer initiates actual orders of our product. Following a design win, we will commit significant resources to the integration of our product into the customer’s product before receiving the initial order. Receipt of an initial order from a customer following a design win, however, is dependent on a number of factors, including the success of the customer’s product, and cannot be guaranteed. The design win may never result in an actual order or sale. Any significant order cancellations or order deferrals could cause unplanned inventory growth resulting in excess inventory which may adversely affect our operating results. Our customers may increase orders during periods of product shortages or cancel orders if their inventories are too high. Major inventory corrections by our customers are not uncommon and can last for significant periods of time and affect demand for our products. Customers may also cancel or delay orders in anticipation of new products or for other reasons. Cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold excess inventory, which could reduce our profit margins by reducing sales prices, incurring inventory write-downs or writing off additional obsolete products. Inventory fluctuations could affect our results of operations and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements. We generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not pay for these products, we could miss future revenue projections or incur significant charges against our income, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our customers’ products typically have lengthy design cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers may need more than six months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional nine months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to this lengthy design cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we cannot guarantee that the customer will ultimately market and sell its equipment or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in this lengthy design cycle increases the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. While our customers’ design cycles are typically long, some of our product life cycles tend to be short as a result of the rapidly changing technology environment in which we operate. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory. If we incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to mitigate those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. 16 Table of Contents An important part of our strategy is to focus on the markets for communications equipment. If we change strategy or are unable to further expand our share of these markets or react timely or properly to emerging trends, our revenues may not grow and could decline. Our markets frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. If our products are unable to support the new features or performance levels required by OEMs in these markets, or if our products fail to be certified by OEMs, we would lose business from an existing or potential customer and may not have the opportunity to compete for new design wins or certification until the next product transition occurs. If we fail to develop products with required features or performance standards, or if we experience a delay as short as a few months in certifying or bringing a new product to market, or if our customers fail to achieve market acceptance of their products, our revenues could be significantly reduced for a substantial period. We expect a significant portion of our revenues to continue to be derived from sales of products based on current, widely accepted transmission standards. If the communications market evolves to new standards, we may not be able to successfully design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers or gain substantial market acceptance. The recent sale of our 3ware storage adaptor business to LSI Corporation marks a change in our strategy. This change, or any further changes we might make, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations while we are implementing our new strategy. Furthermore, there is no assurance that our new strategy will not fail. If we do not identify and pursue the correct emerging trends and align ourselves with the correct market leaders, we may not be successful and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Customers for our products generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have traditionally used these resources to internally develop their own products. The future prospects for our products in these markets are dependent upon our customers’ acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products. Future prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development. Network equipment vendors may in the future continue to use internally developed components. They also may decide to develop or acquire components, technologies or products that are similar to, or that may be substituted for, our products. If our network equipment vendor customers fail to accept our products as an alternative, if they develop or acquire the technology to develop such components internally rather than purchase our products, or if we are otherwise unable to develop or maintain strong relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our business strategy may contemplate the acquisition of other companies, products and technologies. Merger and acquisition activities involve numerous risks and we may not be able to address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Acquiring products, technologies or businesses from third parties is part of our business strategy. The risks involved with merger and acquisition activities include: • potential dilution to our stockholders; • use of a significant portion of our cash reserves; • diversion of management’s attention; • failure to retain or integrate key personnel; • difficulty in completing an acquired company’s in-process research or development projects; • amortization of acquired intangible assets and deferred compensation; • customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired company’s products or services; 17 Table of Contents • costs associated with acquisitions or mergers; • difficulties associated with the integration of acquired companies, products or technologies; • difficulties competing in markets that are unfamiliar to us; • ability of the acquired companies to meet their financial projections; and • assumption of unknown liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances. Any of these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As with past acquisitions, future acquisitions could adversely affect operating results. In particular, acquisitions may materially and adversely affect our results of operations because they may require large one-time charges or could result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial additional depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Our past purchase acquisitions required us to capitalize significant amounts of goodwill and purchased intangible assets. As a result of the slowdown in our industry and reduction of our market capitalization, we have been required to record significant impairment charges against these assets as noted in our financial statements. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $223.0 million to continuing operations. The goodwill impaired was previously assigned to the Process and Transport reporting units in the amounts of $101.5 million, $121.5 million, respectively. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $49.7 million to continuing operations for the Process reporting unit. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2006, we recorded goodwill impairment charges to discontinued operations of $41.1 million, $71.5 million and $81.5 million, respectively, for the Store reporting unit. These market conditions continuously change and it is difficult to project how long this current economic downturn may last. These conditions have caused a decline in our near term revenues and it will take some time to ramp back up to our previous levels. Additionally, market values have deteriorated which has had an unfavorable impact on our valuations which are part of the goodwill and purchased intangible asset impairment tests. There can be no assurances that market conditions will not deteriorate further or that our market capitalization will not decline further. At March 31, 2009, we had $33.0 million of purchased intangible assets. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to take additional significant charges as a result of impairment to the carrying value of these assets, due to further adverse changes in market conditions. Our industry and markets are subject to consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand. There has been industry consolidation among communications IC companies, network equipment companies and telecommunications companies in the past. We expect this consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their positions in evolving markets. Consolidation may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations because we rely heavily on international sales. International sales account for a significant part of our revenues and may account for an increasing portion of our future revenues. The revenues we derive from international sales may be subject to certain risks, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs, rising protectionism and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • political and economic instability; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in managing distributors; 18 Table of Contents • difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for communications and other products; • reduced or uncertain protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • a worsening economic condition that may trail any improvements in the United States. We are subject to risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date primarily in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to United States dollars of accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. Some of our customer purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from laws in the United States. As a result, our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements may be limited compared with our ability to enforce our rights under agreements governed by laws in the United States. Our cash and cash equivalents and portfolio of short-term investments and long-term marketable securities are exposed to certain market risks. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types of instruments and maturities. These securities are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Our investment portfolio is exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and credit ratings of the issuers, as well as to the risks of default by the issuers and lack of overall market liquidity. Substantially all of these securities are subject to interest rate and credit rating risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase or one of the issuers’ credit ratings is reduced. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the credit worthiness of one or more of the issuers in our investment portfolio could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For the year ended March 31, 2008 we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges associated with certain of these securities of $1.7 million to current earnings. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recorded $17.1 million in write-downs in the carrying value of certain securities as we determined the decline in the fair value of these securities to be other than temporary. If the fair value of any of these securities does not recover to at least the amortized cost of such security or we are unable to hold these securities until they recover and there is a further deterioration in market conditions or there are additional losses incurred, we may be required to record a further decline in the carrying value of these securities resulting in further charges. At March 31, 2009, the unrealized losses on these securities, that were not written down as an other-than-temporary impairment charge, were approximately $7.8 million. Our restructuring activities could result in management distractions, operational disruptions and other difficulties. Over the past several years, we have initiated several restructuring activities in an effort to reduce operating costs, including new restructuring initiatives announced in October 2008 and February 2009. Employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with these restructuring activities may seek employment with our customers or competitors. Although each of our employees is required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot guarantee that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Any additional restructuring efforts could divert the attention of our management away from our operations, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. We cannot guarantee 19 Table of Contents that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities, that any of our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or future restructuring plans. In addition, if we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to new growth opportunities. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, so our success depends heavily on our ability to develop and introduce new products. The markets for our products are characterized by: • rapidly changing technologies; • evolving and competing industry standards; • changing customer needs; • frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; • increased integration with other functions; • long design and sales cycles; • short product life cycles; and • intense competition. To develop new products for the communications or other technology markets, we must develop, gain access to and use leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner and continue to develop technical and design expertise. We must have our products designed into our customers’ future products and maintain close working relationships with key customers in order to develop new products that meet customers’ changing needs. We must respond to changing industry standards, trends towards increased integration and other technological changes on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our pursuit of technological advances may require substantial time and expense and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. If we are not successful in adopting such advances, we may be unable to timely bring to market new products and our revenues will suffer. Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating and financial results. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in these markets in the future. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we expect that domestic and international competition will increase in these markets, due in part to deregulation, rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues, lower profit margins or loss of market share. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on a number of factors, including: • our ability to partner with OEM and channel partners who are successful in the market; • success in designing and subcontracting the manufacture of new products that implement new technologies; • product quality, interoperability, reliability, performance and certification; • customer support; • time-to-market; 20 Table of Contents • price; • production efficiency; • design wins; • expansion of production of our products for particular systems manufacturers; • end-user acceptance of the systems manufacturers’ products; • market acceptance of competitors’ products; and • general economic conditions. Our competitors may offer enhancements to existing products, or offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements that are available to customers on a more timely basis than comparable products from us or that have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our products. The introduction of enhancements or new products by our competitors could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. We expect that certain of our competitors and other semiconductor companies may seek to develop and introduce products that integrate the functions performed by our IC products on a single chip, thus eliminating the need for our products. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the transport communications IC markets, we compete primarily against companies such as LSI, Broadcom and Vitesse. In the embedded processor communications IC market, we compete with technology companies such as Freescale Semiconductor, Cavium and Intel. Many of these companies may have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we have. Certain of our customers or potential customers have internal IC design or manufacturing capabilities with which we compete. We may also face competition from new entrants to our target markets, including larger technology companies that may develop or acquire differentiating technology and then apply their resources to our detriment. Any failure by us to compete successfully in these target markets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on third-party manufacturing and supply relationships increases the risk that we will not have an adequate supply of products to meet demand or that our cost of materials will be higher than expected. We depend upon third parties to manufacture, assemble, package or test certain of our products. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with these third parties, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; • inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs; • difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; • potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • limited warranties on products supplied to us; • potential increases in prices; • potential instability in countries where third-party manufacturers are located; and • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. Our outside foundries generally manufacture our products on a purchase order basis, and we have few long-term supply arrangements with these suppliers. We have less control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs than competitors with their own fabrication facilities. A manufacturing disruption experienced by one or more of our outside foundries or a disruption of our relationship with an outside foundry, including discontinuance of our products by that foundry, would negatively impact the production of certain of our products for a substantial period of time. 21 Table of Contents Our IC products are generally only qualified for production at a single foundry. These suppliers can allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. There is also the potential that they may discontinue manufacturing our products or go out of business. Because establishing relationships, designing or redesigning ICs, and ramping production with new outside foundries may take over a year, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for these products. Difficulties associated with adapting our technology and product design to the proprietary process technology and design rules of outside foundries can lead to reduced yields of our IC products. The process technology of an outside foundry is typically proprietary to the manufacturer. Since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems may require cooperation between us and our manufacturer. This risk could be compounded by the offshore location of certain of our manufacturers, increasing the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. Manufacturing defects that we do not discover during the manufacturing or testing process may lead to costly product recalls. These risks may lead to increased costs or delayed product delivery, which would harm our profitability and customer relationships. If the foundries or subcontractors we use to manufacture our products discontinue the manufacturing processes needed to meet our demands, or fail to upgrade their technologies needed to manufacture our products, we may be unable to deliver products to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. The transition to the next generation of manufacturing technologies at one or more of our outside foundries could be unsuccessful or delayed. Our requirements typically represent a very small portion of the total production of the third-party foundries. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a producer will cease production of an older or lower-volume process that it uses to produce our parts. We cannot assure you that our external foundries will continue to devote resources to the production of parts for our products or continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. Each of these events could increase our costs, lower our gross margin, cause us to hold more inventories or materially impact our ability to deliver our products on time. As our volumes decrease with any third-party foundry, the likelihood of unfavorable pricing increases. Some companies that supply our customers are similarly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to produce their products. These other companies’ products may be designed into the same networking equipment into which our products are designed. Our order levels could be reduced materially if these companies are unable to access sufficient production capacity to produce in volumes demanded by our customers because our customers may be forced to slow down or halt production on the equipment into which our products are designed. Our operating results depend on manufacturing output and yields of our ICs and printed circuit board assemblies, which may not meet expectations. The yields on wafers we have manufactured decline whenever a substantial percentage of wafers must be rejected or a significant number of die on each wafer are nonfunctional. Such declines can be caused by many factors, including minute levels of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, design issues, defects in masks used to print circuits on a wafer, and difficulties in the fabrication process. Design iterations and process changes by our suppliers can cause a risk of defects. Many of these problems are difficult to diagnose, are time consuming and expensive to remedy, and can result in shipment delays. We estimate yields per wafer and final packaged parts in order to estimate the value of inventory. If yields are materially different than projected, work-in-process inventory may need to be revalued. We may have to take inventory write-downs as a result of decreases in manufacturing yields. We may suffer periodic yield problems in connection with new or existing products or in connection with the commencement of production at a new manufacturing facility. 22 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration and that may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. As smaller line width geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to integrate greater levels of functionality into our IC products and to transition our IC products to increasingly smaller geometries. This transition will require us to redesign certain products and will require us and our foundries to migrate to new manufacturing processes for our products. We may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs and increase performance, and we have designed IC products to be manufactured at as little as .09 micron geometry processes. We have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies and new manufacturing processes. These difficulties resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our IC products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our relationships with our foundries. If we or our foundries experience significant delays in this transition or fail to implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We must develop or otherwise gain access to improved IC process technologies. Our future success will depend upon our ability to access new IC process technologies. In the future, we may be required to transition one or more of our IC products to process technologies with smaller geometries, other materials or higher speeds in order to reduce costs or improve product performance. We may not be able to gain access to new process technologies in a timely or affordable manner or products based on these new technologies may not achieve market acceptance. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs, which could negatively impact our reputation with customers and result in liability. Products as complex as ours may contain errors, defects and bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products have in the past experienced such errors, defects and bugs. Delivery of products with production defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems could significantly delay or hinder market acceptance of the products or result in a costly recall and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers. Errors, defects or bugs could cause problems with device functionality, resulting in interruptions, delays or cessation of sales to our customers. We may also be required to make significant expenditures of capital and resources to resolve such problems. We cannot assure you that problems will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial production, despite testing by us, our suppliers or our customers. Any problem could result in: • additional development costs; • loss of, or delays in, market acceptance; • diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts; • claims by our customers or others against us; and • loss of credibility with our current and prospective customers. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of control must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of internal control can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our management has concluded, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal control in the future. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to assess our internal control as ineffective. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered effective, we may experience another restatement and/or a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. Our leadership transition may not go smoothly and could adversely impact our future operations. We had previously announced that Kambiz Hooshmand will step down as our Chief Executive Officer and will be replaced by Paramesh Gopi, our current Chief Operating Officer. A significant leadership change is inherently risky and we may be unable to manage this transition smoothly which could adversely impact our future strategy and ability to function or execute and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key senior management, design engineering, sales, marketing, and manufacturing personnel, our ability to identify, hire and retain additional, qualified personnel and successful succession planning. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior management personnel and successful succession planning. The loss of key senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry; in particular design, product and test engineers, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business, or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave our employment in the future. There may be significant costs associated with recruiting, hiring and retaining personnel. Periods of contraction in our business may inhibit our ability to attract and retain our personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could be significantly detrimental to our product development or other aspects of our business. To manage operations effectively, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems and to successfully hire, train, motivate, and manage our employees. The integration of future acquisitions would require significant additional management, technical and administrative resources. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to manage our expanded operations effectively. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to supply a sufficient number of products to meet demand could be severely hampered by a shortage of water, electricity or other supplies, or by natural disasters or other catastrophes. The manufacture of our products requires significant amounts of water. Previous droughts have resulted in restrictions being placed on water use by manufacturers. In the event of a future drought, reductions in water use may be mandated generally and our external foundries’ ability to manufacture our products could be impaired. Several of our facilities, including our principal executive offices, are located in California. In 2001, California experienced prolonged energy alerts and blackouts caused by disruption in energy supplies. As a consequence, businesses and other energy consumers in California continue to experience substantially increased costs of electricity and natural gas. We are unsure whether energy alerts and blackouts will reoccur or how severe they may become in the future. Many of our customers and suppliers are also headquartered or have substantial operations in California. If we or any of our major customers or suppliers located in California experience a sustained disruption in energy supplies, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A portion of our test and assembly facilities are located in our San Diego, California location and a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are located in Asia. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes or floods. We do not have earthquake or business interruption insurance for these facilities, because adequate coverage is not offered at economically justifiable rates. A significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The effects of war, acts of terrorism or global threats, including, but not limited to, the outbreak of epidemic disease, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to local and global economies and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We could incur substantial fines or litigation costs associated with our storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. Any failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, the suspension of production or a cessation of operations. These regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations or clean up prior discharges. Since 1993, we have been named as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) along with a large number of other companies that used Omega Chemical Corporation in Whittier, California to handle and dispose of certain hazardous waste material. We are a member of a large group of PRPs that has agreed to fund certain on-going remediation efforts at the Omega Chemical site. To date, our payment obligations with respect to these funding efforts have not been material, and we believe that our future obligations to fund these efforts will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In 2003, we closed our wafer fabrication facility in San Diego and the property was returned to the landlord. In operating the facility at this site, we stored and used hazardous materials. Although we believe that we have been and currently are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that we are or will be in material compliance with these laws or regulations or that our future obligations to fund any remediation efforts, including those at the Omega Chemical site, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union (“EU”) member countries. For example, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of 25 Table of Contents Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directives. RoHS prohibits the use of lead and other substances, in semiconductors and other products put on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment on the market in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. There can be no assurance that similar programs will not be implemented in other jurisdictions resulting in additional costs, possible delays in delivering products, and even the discontinuance of existing and planned future product replacements if the cost were to become prohibitive. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We may make additional investments in or acquire other companies, products or technologies. These acquisitions may involve numerous risks, including: • problems combining or integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. In addition, in the event of any such investments or acquisitions, we could • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt; • assume liabilities; • incur amortization or impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets; or • incur large and immediate write-offs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire. Any dispositions we make could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We completed the sale of our 3ware storage adapter business, a significant portion of our business, to LSI Corporation on April 21, 2009. As a result, we now expect to generate all of our sales from our remaining business, which will require us to grow our remaining business in order to achieve profitability. Economic and other factors may prevent us from growing our remaining business. If we fail to grow our remaining business, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may in the future dispose of additional assets or businesses that represent a significant portion of our business. The sale of our 3ware storage adapter business and any possible future dispositions may involve numerous risks, including: • problems carving out or disposing of assets, operations, technologies and products; • the disposal of such assets or businesses could have an unanticipated adverse effect on the remaining business; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from core ongoing operations; • potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and 26 Table of Contents • if we do not structure the disposition properly and scale expenses according to the size of the remaining business, we could continue to incur expenses that could be unsustainable given the scope of the remaining business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately. We rely in part on patents to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications or any future applications will be approved, or that any issued patents will adequately protect the intellectual property in our products, will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, or that if challenged, any such patent will be found to be valid or enforceable. Others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design around any patents that may be issued to us. To protect our intellectual property, we also rely on the combination of mask work protection under the Federal Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements. Despite these efforts, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property, or disclose such intellectual property or trade secrets, or that we can meaningfully protect our intellectual property. A failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our network to misappropriate our proprietary information or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in foreign countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We could be harmed by litigation involving patents, proprietary rights or other claims. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation. The semiconductor industry is characterized by substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including the attention of our management and technical personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be accused of infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by our products. We cannot assure you that infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers or end users resulting from infringement claims will not be asserted in the future, or that such assertions will not harm our business. Any litigation relating to the intellectual property rights of third parties would at a minimum be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. In the event of any adverse ruling in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement. A license might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. From time to time, we may be involved in litigation relating to other claims arising out of our operations in the normal course of business. We cannot assure you that the ultimate outcome of any such matters will not have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 27 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; • anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; • technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; • conditions in the semiconductor, communications or information technology markets; • the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; • changes in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • management changes; • our inclusion in certain stock indices; and • other events or factors. The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. In some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and of the Delaware general corporation law may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, as the terms of the preferred stock that might be issued could potentially prohibit our consummation of any merger, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. If we issue additional shares of stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have a significant number of authorized and unissued shares of our common stock available. These shares will provide us with the flexibility to issue our common stock for proper corporate purposes, which may include making acquisitions through the use of stock, adopting additional equity incentive plans and raising equity capital. Any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 