Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Merger with Seagate Technology Failure to complete the merger with Seagate Technology could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. On December 20, 2005, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Seagate Technology (“Seagate”). Consummation of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including antitrust approvals, stockholder approvals and a limited number of other closing conditions. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained, or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as currently contemplated under the merger agreement or at all. If the merger is not consummated: • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price includes a market assumption that the merger will be completed; • we will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the merger, and may not receive any termination fee from Seagate; • the deterioration of our business in the interim period may be significant and we may find it difficult to continue as a stand-alone entity; 11 Table of Contents • we may experience a negative reaction to the termination of the merger from our customers, suppliers, distributors or partners which may adversely impact our future operating results; and • under some circumstances, we may have to pay a termination fee to Seagate in the amount of $53 million or Seagate’s expenses. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated and our Board of Directors seeks another merger or business combination, we may not be able to find a party willing to pay a price equivalent to or more attractive than the price Seagate has agreed to pay. Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions relating to the Seagate merger or other developments may delay or prevent completion of the merger. Completion of the merger with Seagate is conditioned upon Seagate and Maxtor obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions, including: • approval by our stockholders of the merger agreement; • approval by the stockholders of Seagate of the issuance of its shares pursuant to the merger; and • Seagate and Maxtor obtaining necessary antitrust approvals under governmental authorities of the European Economic Area, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. The requirement for certain governmental approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time. No assurance can be given that these approvals will be obtained or that the required conditions to closing will be satisfied. In connection with the granting of these consents and authorizations, governmental authorities may impose conditions on completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. Such conditions or changes, if agreed to by the parties, may jeopardize or delay completion of the merger or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Seagate and we are required to use our respective best efforts to obtain all requisite regulatory approvals. Even if all such approvals are obtained and the conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of these approvals. Any significant delay in obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions, or other developments relating to the merger, may result in continued uncertainty for our customers, suppliers, distributors and partners, could cause continued distraction to management or could otherwise increase the risk of the merger not occurring. Customer, supplier, distributor and partner uncertainty about the merger or general effects of the merger on our customer, supplier, distributor and partner relationships could harm us or the combined company, whether or not the merger is completed. Existing or potential customers of Seagate and Maxtor may, in response to the announcement, pendency or consummation of the merger, delay or defer their purchasing decisions. In addition, customers and prospective customers could choose not to purchase future products or to reduce or eliminate purchases of our current products because of doubts about the combined company’s ability to provide products in a satisfactory manner. In many instances, we and Seagate serve the same customers, and some of these customers may decide that it is desirable to have additional or different suppliers, reducing our share of the market. Furthermore, Seagate’s and our respective suppliers, distributors and partners may have concerns regarding uncertainty about their future relationship with the combined company and may seek to modify or terminate existing agreements or reduce or limit their relationship with us or with Seagate until or after the merger is completed. As a result, revenues that may have ordinarily been received by Seagate or Maxtor may be delayed or not earned at all, product development schedules may be adversely impacted, costs of components may increase and/or cost reductions that would ordinarily have been achieved might be delayed or not achieved at all, whether or not the merger is completed. 12 Table of Contents Diversion of management attention to the merger and employee uncertainty regarding the merger could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The merger will require a significant amount of time and attention from our management, with transition planning for the merger expected to place a significant burden on our management and our internal resources until the merger is completed. The diversion of management attention away from normal operational matters and any difficulties encountered in the transition process could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, as a result of the merger, current and prospective Maxtor employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles within the combined company. Even though we have implemented a retention bonus program, this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain or recruit key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. Any failure to retain key personnel could have an adverse effect on us prior to the consummation of the merger or on the business of the combined company after completion of the merger. Because our stockholders will receive a fixed ratio of 0.37 of a share of Seagate common stock for each share of Maxtor common stock that they own at the closing of the merger, if Seagate’s stock price decreases for any reason, our stockholders will receive less value for their Maxtor shares. At the closing of the merger, each share of Maxtor common stock will be converted in accordance with a fixed exchange ratio into the right to receive 0.37 of a share of Seagate common stock. Accordingly, the then current dollar value of Seagate common stock that our stockholders will receive upon the completion of the merger will depend entirely upon the market value of Seagate common stock at the time the merger is completed, which may be lower than the closing price of Seagate common stock on the last full trading day preceding the public announcement of the merger or the date of our annual meeting and Seagate’s extraordinary general meeting. Moreover, due to the existence of a number of closing conditions, including the receipt of required antitrust approvals, the completion of the merger may occur some time after approvals from Maxtor and Seagate stockholders have been obtained. The market price of Seagate common stock has experienced volatility in the past, and we cannot predict or give any assurances as to the market price of Seagate common stock at any time before or after the completion of the merger. Neither Maxtor nor Seagate may unilaterally terminate or renegotiate the merger agreement solely because of changes in the market price of Maxtor or Seagate common stock. Any reduction in the price of Seagate common stock will result in our stockholders receiving less value in the merger at closing. The combined company may not realize the anticipated benefits from the merger. The merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. We expect the merger to result in certain benefits for the combined company, including drive product innovations, cost savings and other financial and operating benefits. We cannot assure you, however, regarding when or the extent to which the combined company will be able to realize these benefits. This integration may also be difficult, unpredictable, and subject to delay because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. Due to legal restrictions, we have conducted only limited planning regarding the integration of the two companies. Following the merger, the companies must integrate or, in some cases, replace, numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance, many of which are dissimilar. Difficulties associated with integrating the two companies could have a material adverse effect on the combined company and the market price of Seagate common stock. Under the terms of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012, our merger with Seagate Technology will trigger conversion rights that, if exercised, may have an adverse effect on the liquidity of the combined company. The closing of our merger with Seagate will give the holders of our 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 the right to elect to convert their notes for a period of approximately 30 days. Because conversion of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 must be settled in cash up to the lesser of (a) the outstanding principal amount of the notes being converted, and (b) the “conversion value” of the notes (which is calculated by multiplying the conversion rate then in effect by the market price of our common stock price at 13 Table of Contents the time of conversion), the merger may have a negative effect on our liquidity if a significant amount of those outstanding notes are converted. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of significant losses. We have a history of significant losses. In the last five fiscal years, we were profitable in only fiscal years 2000 and 2003. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, our net loss was $43.3 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,838.5 million. We may experience losses in the future and may not be profitable for a full fiscal year. The decline of average selling prices in the hard disk drive industry could cause our operating results to suffer and make it difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. It is very difficult to achieve and maintain profitability and revenue growth in the hard disk drive industry because the average selling price of a hard disk drive declines over its commercial life as a result of technological advances, productivity improvements and increases in supply. In addition, intense price competition among personal computer manufacturers and Intel-based server manufacturers may cause the price of hard disk drives to decline. As a result, the hard disk drive market tends to experience periods of excess capacity and intense price competition. Competitors’ attempts to liquidate excess inventories, restructure, or gain market share also tend to cause average selling prices to decline. Furthermore, longer product life-cycles have resulted in a decline in average selling prices that, in some cases, exceed the decline in cost of components over the longer product life-cycle. This excess capacity and intense price competition may cause us in future quarters to lower prices, which will have the effect of reducing margins, causing operating results to suffer and making it difficult for us to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are unable to lower the cost of producing our hard disk drives to be consistent with any decline of average selling prices, we will not be able to compete effectively and our operating results will suffer. Furthermore, a decline in average selling prices may result from end-of-period buying patterns where distributors and sub-distributors tend to make a majority of their purchases at the end of a fiscal quarter, aided by disparities between distribution pricing and OEM pricing greater than historical norms and pressure on disk drive manufacturers to sell significant units in the quarter. Due to these factors, forecasts may not be achieved, either because expected sales do not occur or because they occur at lower prices than expected or on terms that are less favorable to us. This increases the chances that our results could diverge from the expectations of investors and analysts, which could make our stock price more volatile. Intense competition in the hard disk drive market could reduce the demand for our products or the prices of our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. The desktop computer market segment and the overall hard disk drive market are intensely competitive even during periods when demand is stable. We compete primarily with manufacturers of 3.5-inch hard disk drives, including Fujitsu, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Samsung, Seagate Technology and Western Digital. Many of our competitors historically have had a number of significant advantages, including larger market share, a broader product line, preferred vendor status with customers, extensive name recognition and marketing power, a lower cost structure, and/or significantly greater financial, technical and manufacturing resources. Some of our competitors make many of their own components, which may provide them with benefits including lower costs. Others may themselves or through affiliated entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disk drives or other information storage products, enabling them to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. In addition, because components other than disk drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete system than do disk drives, these manufacturers of complete systems do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disk drives included in a system. Our competitors may also: • consolidate or establish strategic relationships to lower their product costs or to otherwise compete more effectively against us; 14 Table of Contents • lower their product prices to gain market share; • sell their products with other products to increase demand for their products; • develop new technology, which would significantly reduce the cost of their products; • get to the market with the next generation product faster or ramp more effectively; or • offer more products than we do and therefore enter into agreements with customers to supply hard disk drives as part of a larger supply agreement. Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our products and/or the prices of our products as a result of the introduction of technologically better and/or cheaper products, which could reduce our revenues. In addition, new competitors could emerge and rapidly capture market share. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business, financial condition and operating results will suffer. If we fail to qualify as a supplier to computer manufacturers or their subcontractors, then these manufacturers or subcontractors may not purchase any units of an entire product line, which will have a significant adverse impact on our sales. A significant portion of our products is sold to desktop computer and Intel-based server manufacturers or to their subcontractors. These manufacturers select or qualify their hard disk drive suppliers, either directly or through their subcontractors, based on quality, storage capacity, performance and price. Manufacturers typically seek to qualify two or more suppliers for each hard disk drive product generation. To qualify consistently, and thus succeed in the desktop and Intel-based server hard disk drive industry, we must consistently be among the first-to-market with introduction and first-to-volume production at leading storage capacities per disk, offering competitive prices and high quality. Once a manufacturer or subcontractor has chosen its hard disk drive suppliers for a given desktop computer or Intel-based server product, it often will purchase hard disk drives from those suppliers for the commercial lifetime of that product line. It is, however, possible to fail to maintain a qualification due to quality or yield issues. If we miss a qualification opportunity or cease to be qualified due to yield or quality issues, we may not have another opportunity to do business with that manufacturer or subcontractor until it introduces its next generation of products. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high-volume manufacturers of personal computers and Intel-based servers. If we do not reach the market or deliver volume production in a timely manner, we may not qualify our products and may need to deliver lower margin, older products than required in order to meet our customers’ demands. In such cases, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, continuing developments in technology cause a need for us to continuously manage product transitions, including a need to qualify new products or qualify improvements to existing products. Accordingly, if we are unable to manage a product transition effectively, including the introduction, production or qualification of any new products or product improvements, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. The loss of one or more significant customers or a decrease in their orders of our products would cause our revenues to decline. We sell most of our products to a limited number of customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, two of our customers accounted for 10% or greater of our total revenue, and our top five customers accounted for approximately 40.2% of our revenue. We expect that a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the proportion of our revenue from these customers could continue to increase in the future. These customers have a wide variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us. Even if we successfully qualify a product for a given customer, the customer generally will not be obligated to purchase any minimum volume of product from us and generally will be able to terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer or if any of our key customers reduce their orders for our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are 15 Table of Contents able to reduce costs, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our significant customers may adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not expand into new hard drive markets, our revenues will suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard disk drives to major manufacturers of personal computers, consumer electronics and Intel-based servers, we need to offer a broad range of hard disk drive products to our customers. Although almost all our current products are designed for the desktop computer and the Intel-based server markets, demand in these markets may shift to products we do not offer or volume demand may shift to other markets. Such markets may include laptop computers or handheld consumer products, which none of our products currently serve. We also do not offer a fibre channel product for our enterprise customers. Many other hard disk drive suppliers compete in these additional parts of the market, including Cornice, Inc., Fujitsu, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, GS Magicstor Inc., Samsung, Seagate Technology, Toshiba and Western Digital. Because many of these competitors compete in a broader range of the market, they may not be as impacted by declines in demand or average selling prices in desktop products. Improvements in areal density and increases in sales of notebook computers are resulting in a shift to smaller form factor rigid disk drives for an expanding number of applications, including enterprise storage, personal computers and consumer electronic devices. In addition, non-disk drive storage technologies such as flash memories may create effective competition in these markets. We will need to successfully develop and manufacture new products that address additional hard disk drive markets to remain competitive in the hard disk drive industry. Although we are continuing our development efforts in the small form factor market there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and introduce a small form factor product in a timely fashion. If we do not suitably adapt our technology and product offerings to successfully develop and introduce additional smaller form factor rigid disk drives, we may not be able to effectively compete and our revenues will suffer. Products using alternative technologies, such as optical storage, semiconductor memory and other storage technologies, may also compete with hard disk drive products in such markets. Our efforts to improve operating efficiencies through restructuring activities may not be successful, and the actions we take to this end could limit our ability to compete effectively. We have taken, and continue to take, various actions to attempt to improve operating efficiencies at Maxtor through restructuring. These activities have included facility closures, facility transfers and significant personnel reductions. We continue to look at opportunities for further cost reductions, which may result in additional restructuring activities in the future. We cannot assure you that our efforts will result in the increased profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect. Many factors, including reduced sales volume and average selling prices, which have impacted gross margins in the past, and the addition of, or increase in, other operating expenses may offset some or all of our anticipated or estimated savings. Moreover, the reduction of personnel and closure and transfer of facilities may result in disruptions that affect our products and customer service. In addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to a different facility frequently requires qualification of the new facility by some of our OEM customers. We cannot assure you that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations. Each of the above measures could have long-term adverse effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing employee morale, disrupting production schedules or impacting the quality of products making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if and when the demand for our products increases and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could adversely affect our business and operating results. Because we are substantially dependent on desktop computer drive sales, a decrease in the demand for desktop computers could reduce demand for our products. Our revenue growth and profitability depend significantly on the overall demand for desktop computers and related products and services. Because we sell a significant portion of our products to the desktop segment 16 Table of Contents of the personal computer industry, we will be affected more by changes in market conditions for desktop computers than a company with a broader range of products. End-user demand for the computer systems that contain our hard disk drives has historically been subject to rapid and unpredictable fluctuations. Demand in general for our products may be reduced by a shift to smaller form factor rigid disk drives or by the emergence of effective non-disk drive storage product competitors. Any decrease in the demand for desktop computers could reduce the demand for our products, harming our business, financial condition and operating results. If we do not successfully introduce new products or avoid product quality problems, our revenues will suffer. While we continually develop new products, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. In addition, quality problems may adversely impact our relationships with our major OEM customers, which in turn could adversely impact our sales to those customers of new products in the future. We cannot assure you that we will avoid technical or other difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of new hard disk drives. Any failure to successfully develop and introduce new products for our existing customers, or any quality problems with newly introduced products, could result in loss of customer business or require us to deliver older, lower margin products not targeted effectively to customer requirements, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we do not expand into new technologies, our revenues will suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard disk drives to major manufacturers of personal computers, consumer electronics and Intel-based servers, and to expand into supplying manufacturers of laptop computers or handheld consumer products, we may need to develop new technologies. Many other hard disk drives suppliers compete in the development of such new technologies, including Cornice, Inc., Fujitsu, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, GS Magicstor Inc., Samsung, Seagate Technology, Toshiba and Western Digital, and they may be better funded or more advanced in their technological developments. Improvements in time to market, time to volume, and cost of goods may require development of a greater number of common design elements and components for use in multiple future products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and introduce such technologies in a timely fashion. If we do not suitably develop such technologies, we may not be able to effectively compete and our revenues could suffer. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our key distributors, if we experience problems associated with distribution channels, or if our key distributors favor our competitors’ products over ours, our operating results could suffer. We sell a significant amount of our hard disk drive products through a limited number of key distributors. If we fail to develop, cultivate and maintain relationships with our key distributors, or if these distributors are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. As our sales through these distribution channels continue to increase, we may experience problems typically associated with these distribution channels such as unstable pricing, increased return rates and other logistical difficulties. Our distributors also sell products manufactured by our competitors. If our distributors favor our competitors’ products for any reason, they may fail to market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales and, as a result, our operating results could suffer. Our customers have adopted a subcontractor model that increases our credit risk and could result in an increase in our operating costs. Our significant OEM customers have a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies that provide manufacturing services for personal computer manufacturers. This exposes us to increased credit risk because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as personal computer manufacturers, and our agreements with our customers may not permit us to increase our prices to 17 Table of Contents compensate for this increased credit risk. Any credit losses would increase our operating costs, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Moreover, the subcontractor will often negotiate for lower prices than have been agreed with the OEM customer, resulting in reduced profits to us. If we fail to match production with product demand or to manage inventory, our operating results could suffer. We base our inventory purchases and commitments on forecasts from our customers, who are not obligated to purchase the forecast amounts. If actual orders do not match our forecasts, or if any products become obsolete between order and delivery time, we may have excess or inadequate inventory of our products. In addition, our significant OEM customers have adopted build-to-order manufacturing models, just-in-time inventory management processes or customized product features that require us to maintain inventory at or near the customer’s production facility. These policies have complicated inventory management strategies that make it more difficult to match manufacturing plans with projected customer demand and cause us to carry inventory for more time and to incur additional costs to manage inventory which could cause our operating results to suffer. If we fail to manage inventory of older products as we or our competitors introduce new products with higher areal density we may have excess inventory. Excess inventory could materially adversely affect our operating results and cause our operating results to suffer. Because we purchase a significant portion of our parts from a limited number of third party suppliers, we are subject to the risk that we may be unable to acquire quality components in a timely manner, and these component shortages could result in delays of product shipments and damage our business and operating results. We depend on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components and subassemblies, including recording heads, media and integrated circuits. Currently, we purchase recording heads from two sources, digital signal processors/controllers from one source and spin/servo integrated circuits from two sources. Our internal media manufacturing capability cannot supply all of our media needs, and therefore we still purchase a portion of our media from outside sources. The industry has been experiencing constraints in component supplies, particularly media and substrates. If one or more of our suppliers who provide sole or limited source components encounters business difficulties or ceases to sell components to us for any reason, or if our media production facilities encounter production difficulties, we could have immediate shortages of supply for those components. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of high-quality parts when needed, product shipments would be delayed and our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of critical components in a timely and economic manner, or at all. Our announced merger agreement with Seagate may make it more difficult to obtain supplies of some critical components at competitive prices or on customary terms as our suppliers evaluate their ongoing relationship with the combined company. We purchase most of our components from third party suppliers, and may have higher costs or more supply chain risks than our competitors who are more vertically integrated. Unlike some of our competitors, except for a portion of our media, we do not manufacture any of the parts used in our products. Instead, our products incorporate parts and components designed by and purchased from third party suppliers. As a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and effectively integrate parts and components that use leading-edge technology. To do so we must effectively manage our relationships with our strategic component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers and manage difficult scheduling and delivery problems and in some cases we must incur higher delivery costs for components than incurred by our competitors. Some required parts may be periodically in short supply. As a result, we will have to allow for significant ordering lead times for some components. Furthermore, in the event that these suppliers cannot qualify to new leading-edge technology specifications, our ramp up of production for the new products will be delayed, reducing opportunities to lower component and manufacturing costs and lengthening product life cycles. In addition, we may have to pay significant cancellation charges to suppliers if we cancel orders for components 18 Table of Contents because we reduce production due to market oversupply, reduced demand, transition to new products or technologies or for other reasons. We order the majority of our components on a purchase order basis and we have limited long-term volume purchase agreements with only some of our existing suppliers. If we are unable to successfully manage the access to and integration of parts obtained from third party suppliers, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. If we have difficulties with the transition of manufacturing to China or a disaster occurs at one of our plants, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Our Maxtor-owned facilities in Singapore and China are our only current sources of production for our hard disk drive products. We manufacture a majority of our media needs in California. Our new manufacturing facility in China is intended to provide us with a low-cost manufacturing facility. The China facility has ramped its production of one and two-platter desktop drives. In the fourth quarter of 2005, two-thirds of our desktop volume was produced in China and we expect to produce at approximately this volume throughout 2006. We are transitioning the manufacturing of more desktop products from Singapore to China during 2005. To successfully expand our China manufacturing operation, we need to recruit and hire a substantial number of employees, including both direct labor and key management personnel in China. Any delay or difficulty in qualifying our China facility’s production of various products with our customers, or any difficulties or delay in recruiting, hiring or training personnel in China, could interfere with the ramp in production at the facility, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have also consolidated our manufacturing in Singapore into one facility. Any difficulties or delays encountered in these transitions may adversely impact our business. In addition, a tsunami, flood, earthquake, political instability, act of terrorism or other disaster or condition that adversely affects our facilities or ability to manufacture our hard disk drive products could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provision or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. Our products may contain defects. We generally warrant our products for one to five years. The standard warranties used by us and Quantum HDD contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for negligent or improper use of the products. We establish a warranty provision at the time of product shipment in an amount equal to estimated warranty expenses. We may incur additional operating expenses if these steps do not reflect the actual cost of resolving these issues, and if any resulting expenses are significant our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Our future performance will depend on many factors, including: • the average selling price of our products; • fluctuations in the demand for our products as a result of the seasonal nature of the desktop computer industry and the markets for our customers’ products, as well as the overall economic environment; • market acceptance of our products; • our ability to qualify our products successfully with our customers; • changes in purchases by our primary customers, including the cancellation, rescheduling or deferment of orders; • changes in product and customer mix; • actions by our competitors, including announcements of new products or technological innovations; • our ability to execute future product development and production ramps effectively; 19 Table of Contents • the availability and efficient use of manufacturing capacity; • our ability to retain key personnel; • our inability to reduce a significant portion of our fixed costs due, in part, to ongoing capital expenditure requirements; and • our ability to procure and purchase critical components at competitive prices. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed and difficult to reduce or modify. The fixed nature of our operating expenses will magnify any adverse effect of a decrease in revenue on our operating results. Because of these and other factors, period to period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not a good predictor of our future performance. If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts, our stock price may decline. Our ability to predict demand for our products and our financial results for current and future periods may be affected by economic conditions. This may adversely affect both our ability to adjust production volumes and expenses and our ability to provide the financial markets with forward-looking information. We face risks from our substantial international operations and sales. We conduct most of our manufacturing and testing operations and purchase a substantial portion of our key parts outside the United States. In particular, manufacturing operations for our products are concentrated in Singapore and China, where our principal manufacturing operations are located. Such concentration of operations in Singapore and China will likely magnify the effects on us of any disruptions or disasters relating to those countries. In addition, we also sell a significant portion of our products to foreign distributors and retailers. As a result, we will be dependent on revenue from international sales. Inherent risks relating to our overseas operations include: • difficulties with staffing and managing international operations; • transportation and supply chain disruptions and increased transportation expense as a result of epidemics, terrorist activity, acts of war or hostility, increased security and less developed infrastructure; • economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets; • international currency fluctuations; • political and economic uncertainty caused by natural disasters such as tsunamis, earthquakes and hurricanes; epidemics; terrorism; or acts of war or hostility; • legislative and regulatory responses to terrorist activity such as increased restrictions on cross-border movement of products and technology; • legislative, regulatory, police, or civil responses to epidemics or other outbreaks of infectious diseases such as quarantines, factory closures, or increased restrictions on transportation or travel; • general strikes or other disruptions in working conditions; • labor shortages; • energy or fuel shortages or cost increases; • political instability; • changes in tariffs; • generally longer periods to collect receivables; • unexpected legislative or regulatory requirements; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 20 Table of Contents • significant unexpected duties or taxes or other adverse tax consequences; • difficulty in obtaining export licenses and other trade barriers; • increased transportation/shipping costs; • credit and access to capital issues faced by our international customers; and • compliance with European Union directives implementing strict mandates on electronic equipment waste and banning the use of certain materials in electronic manufacturing. The specific economic conditions in each country impact our international sales. For example, our international sales contracts are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Significant downward fluctuations in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar could result in higher product prices and/or declining margins and increased manufacturing costs. In addition, we attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. If we do not effectively manage the risks associated with international operations and sales, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Our operations and prospects in China are subject to significant political, economic and legal uncertainties. Our new manufacturing plant in China began volume shipments in the second half of 2004. We also intend to expand our presence in the distribution channels serving China. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the political, social or economic environment in China. Under its current leadership, China has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There can be no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time without notice. In addition, Chinese economic policies may fluctuate from time to time without notice and this fluctuation in policy may adversely impact our credit arrangements. Any changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, the imposition of surcharges or any material increase in Chinese tax rates, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and operate our manufacturing facility in China. Chinese policies toward economic liberalization and, in particular, policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment and other similar matters could change. In addition, our business and prospects are dependent upon agreements and regulatory approval with various entities controlled by Chinese governmental instrumentalities. Our operations and prospects in China would be materially and adversely affected by the failure of such governmental entities to grant necessary approvals or honor existing contracts. If breached, any such contract might be difficult to enforce in China. The legal system in China relating to corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade is both new and continually evolving, and there can be no certainty as to the application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. Our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our business ventures in China are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or may hinder or prevent us from accessing important financial and operational information regarding these ventures. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under Chinese law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, our intellectual property protection measures may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology in China. The Chinese legal system does not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States and effective 21 Table of Contents intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary information and technology in China, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may need additional capital in the future which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our business is capital intensive and we may need more capital in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the rate of our sales growth; • the level of our profits or losses; • the timing and extent of our spending to expand manufacturing capacity, support facilities upgrades and product development efforts; • the timing and size of business or technology acquisitions; • the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to our existing products; and • the length of product life cycles. If we require additional capital it is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, if we issue equity securities in connection with additional financing, our stockholders may experience dilution and/or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services in a timely manner, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements or may be forced to limit the number of products and services we offer, any of which could seriously harm our business. The loss of key personnel or inability of our senior management team to work together effectively could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executives and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Like many other technology companies, we have implemented workforce reductions that in some cases resulted in the termination of skilled employees who have substantial knowledge of our business. Since November 2004, we have also undergone a number of changes in our management structure that included the departure of senior executives and appointment of our current senior management team. Because of these changes, our current senior executive team has not worked together as a group for a significant length of time. Additional turnover in senior management and any future workforce reductions may adversely affect the morale of, and our ability to retain, executives and skilled employees who have not been terminated, which may result in the loss of executives and skilled employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or skilled employees could also affect our ability to successfully implement our business objectives which could slow the growth of our business and cause our operating results to decline. Moreover, if our new management team is unable to work together effectively to implement our strategies and manage our operations and accomplish our business objectives, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be severely impaired. Although we have implemented retention measures in connection with our announced merger agreement with Seagate, the pending merger with Seagate may impact our ability to retain key executives. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our personnel. Worldwide competition for executives and skilled employees in the hard disk drive industry is extremely intense. If we are unable to retain existing employees or to hire and integrate new employees, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. In addition, companies in the hard disk drive industry and other sectors whose employees accept positions with competitors often claim that the hiring organization has engaged in unfair hiring practices. We may be the subject of such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel and we could incur substantial costs defending ourselves against those claims. 22 Table of Contents We significantly increased our leverage as a result of the sale of convertible senior notes. In connection with our sale of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes in August 2005, we incurred $326 million of indebtedness that will mature in August 2012 (the “2005 Notes”). As of December 31, 2005, we also have approximately $135.7 million of outstanding indebtedness under our 6.8% Convertible Senior Notes due 2010 sold in May 2003 that will mature in April 2010 (the “2003 Notes”) and approximately $59.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under our 5.75% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due March 1, 2012 sold in March, 1987. We will require substantial amounts of cash to fund: • semi-annual interest payments on each series of notes; • payment at the respective maturities of each series of notes; • payment of the principal amount of the 2005 Notes upon conversion by the holders or upon demand by the holders following certain fundamental change events; • payment of the principal amount of the 2003 Notes upon conversion (if we elect to satisfy a conversion in whole or in part, with cash rather than shares of our common stock) or upon demand by the holders following certain change of control events; and • future capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions, payments on our leases and loans, and any increased working capital requirements. If we are unable to meet our cash requirements out of cash flows from operations or from otherwise available funds, we may need to obtain alternative financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations under the three series of notes or their respective indentures could cause a default under agreements governing our other indebtedness. The degree to which we are financially leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, to make future acquisitions, to absorb adverse operating results or to fund capital expenditures or increased working capital requirements could be significantly reduced. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, some of which are beyond our control. Under the terms of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012, events that we do not control will trigger conversion rights that, if exercised, may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Because conversion of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 must be settled in cash up to the lesser of (a) the outstanding principal amount of the notes being converted, and (b) the “conversion value” of the notes (which is calculated by multiplying the conversion rate then in effect by the market price of our common stock price at the time of conversion), events that trigger a right to convert may negatively affect our liquidity. In addition, the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 will be convertible, at the option of the holders, if the trading price of those notes is less than the applicable conversion value or, at any time during a fiscal quarter if, during the last 30 trading days of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter our common stock trades at a price in excess of 110% of the conversion price for 20 consecutive trading days. The 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 will also be convertible at the time of our merger with Seagate Technology for approximately 30 days. Any failure to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our protection of our intellectual property is limited. For example, we have patent protection on only some of our technologies. We may not receive patents for our pending or future patent applications, and any patents that we own or that are issued to us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Moreover, the rights granted under any such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In the case of products offered in rapidly emerging markets, such as consumer electronics, our competitors may file patents more rapidly or in greater numbers resulting in the issuance of patents that may result in unexpected infringement 23 Table of Contents assertions against us. Finally, our competitors may develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology. We also rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as the terms of our contracts to protect our proprietary rights. We may have to litigate to enforce patents issued or licensed to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of others. Trade secret protection is inherently difficult to maintain and rely upon, particularly given the extent and complexity of our supply chain and movement of technical employees to competitors. As we expand our branded business around the world, there may be jurisdictions in which there are trademark holders who seek to interrupt our export of products into those countries based on their trademark rights. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights could be expensive and might not bring us timely and effective relief. We may have to obtain licenses of other parties’ intellectual property and pay royalties. If we are unable to obtain such licenses, we may have to stop production of our products or alter our products. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we sell and manufacture our products, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our remedies in these countries may be inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. Any failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to existing claims relating to our intellectual property which are costly to defend and may harm our business. Prior to our acquisition of the Quantum HDD business, we, on the one hand, and Quantum and Matsushita-Kotobuki Electronics Industries, Ltd. (“MKE”), on the other hand, were sued by Papst Licensing, GmbH, a German corporation, for infringement of a number of patents that relate to hard disk drives. Papst’s complaint against Quantum and MKE was filed on July 30, 1998, and Papst’s complaint against Maxtor was filed on March 18, 1999. Both lawsuits, filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, were transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana for coordinated pre-trial proceedings with other pending litigations involving the Papst patents (the “MDL Proceeding”). The matters will be transferred back to the District Court for the Northern District of California for trial. Papst’s infringement allegations are based on spindle motors that Maxtor and Quantum purchased from third party motor vendors, including MKE, and the use of such spindle motors in hard disk drives. We purchased the overwhelming majority of the spindle motors used in our hard disk drives from vendors that were licensed under the Papst patents. Quantum purchased many spindle motors used in its hard disk drives from vendors that were not licensed under the Papst patents, including MKE. As a result of our acquisition of the Quantum HDD business, we assumed Quantum’s potential liabilities to Papst arising from the patent infringement allegations Papst asserted against Quantum. We filed a motion to substitute Maxtor for Quantum in this litigation. The motion was denied by the Court presiding over the MDL Proceeding, without prejudice to being filed again in the future. In February 2002, Papst and MKE entered into an agreement to settle Papst’s pending patent infringement claims against MKE. That agreement includes a license of certain Papst patents to MKE, which might provide Quantum, and thus us, with additional defenses to Papst’s patent infringement claims. On April 15, 2002, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered a separation of claims and remand to the District of Columbia of certain claims between Papst and another party involved in the MDL Proceeding. By order entered June 4, 2002, the court stayed the MDL Proceeding pending resolution by the District of Columbia court of the remanded claims. These separated claims relating to the other party are currently proceeding in the District Court for the District of Columbia. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain and Papst may assert other infringement claims relating to current patents, pending patent applications, and/or future patent applications or issued patents. Additionally, we cannot assure you we will be able to successfully defend ourselves against this or any other Papst lawsuit. Because the Papst complaints assert claims to an unspecified dollar amount of damages, and 24 Table of Contents because we were at an early stage of discovery when the litigation was stayed, we are unable to determine the possible loss, if any, that we may incur as a result of an adverse judgment or a negotiated settlement with respect to claims against us. We made an estimate of the potential liability which might arise from the Papst claims against Quantum at the time of our acquisition of the Quantum HDD business. We have revised this estimate as a result of a related settlement with MKE and this estimate will be further revised as additional information becomes available. A favorable outcome for Papst in these lawsuits could result in the issuance of an injunction against us and our products and/or the payment of monetary damages equal to a reasonable royalty. In the case of a finding of a willful infringement, we also could be required to pay treble damages and Papst’s attorney’s fees. The litigation could result in significant diversion of time by our technical personnel, as well as substantial expenditures for future legal fees. Accordingly, although we cannot currently estimate whether there will be a loss, or the size of any loss, a litigation outcome favorable to Papst could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Management believes that it has valid defenses to the claims of Papst and is defending this matter vigorously. We could be subject to environmental liabilities which could increase our expenses and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the chemicals we use in our manufacturing and research operations, we are subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the United States, Singapore, European Union and China. While we do not believe our operations to date have been harmed as a result of such laws, future regulations may increase our expenses and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the January 2003 adoption by the European Union of the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directive will alter the manner in which certain electronic equipment is handled in the European Union. Even if we are in compliance in all material respects with all present environmental regulations, in the United States, environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action regardless of fault. As a consequence, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. If we have to make significant capital expenditures or pay significant expense in connection with future remedial actions or to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Our customers are subject, and we are potentially subject, to new environmental legislation enacted by the European Union and, if we do not comply, our sales could be adversely impacted. The European Union has adopted two directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the European Union. The first of these is the WEEE directive, which directs member states to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of specified electrical and electronic equipment are responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and environmentally sound disposal of products placed on the market after August 13, 2005, and from products in use prior to that date that are being replaced. The European Union has also adopted the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury, and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the European Union after July 1, 2006. To the extent that we are deemed to be producers of electrical and electrical equipment to which the WEEE directive applies, ensuring compliance with the directive could result in additional costs and disruption to operations and logistics and thus, could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial condition. If we fail to timely provide RoHS compliant products, our European customers may refuse to purchase our products, and our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. We will need to ensure that we can manufacture compliant products, and that we can be assured a supply of compliant components from suppliers. If similar laws and regulations are enacted in other regions where we have significant sales, it may further require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible, and such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. 25 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, including the release of new products by us or our competitors, the loss or gain of significant customers or changes in stock market analysts’ estimates. The market price of our common stock and the number of shares traded each day have varied greatly. Such fluctuations may continue due to numerous factors, including: • quarterly fluctuations in operating results; • announcements of new products by us or our competitors such as products that address additional hard disk drive markets; • gains or losses of significant customers; • changes in stock market analysts’ estimates; • the presence of short-selling of our common stock; • sales of a high volume of shares of our common stock by our large stockholders; • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us; • announcement of a material transaction, such as our proposed combination with Seagate Technology; • general conditions in the semiconductor and electronic systems industries; and • general economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, and proposed changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect earnings. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity-related compensation as key components of our total employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. In recent periods, many of our employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which could affect our ability to retain or attract present and prospective employees. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies have adopted changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States that will require Maxtor and other companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Moreover, new regulations implemented by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) prohibiting NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity-compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. To the extent that new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation could discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change of control. We have a number of protective provisions in place designed to provide our Board of Directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover is in our best interests and that of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including offers at a price above the then-current market price for our common stock. These provisions also may inhibit fluctuations in our stock price that could result from takeover attempts. 26 Table of Contents Provisions in the indentures governing our 6.80% Convertible Senior Notes due 2010 and our 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 could discourage potential acquisitions or delay or prevent a change of control. Repurchase obligations triggered by events constituting a “change of control” in the indenture governing our 6.80% Convertible Senior Notes due 2010 and a “fundamental change” in the indenture governing our 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 may in certain circumstances make more difficult or discourage an acquisition of Maxtor. For example, the fundamental change purchase feature of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 may require Maxtor to repurchase the notes at the option of holders if the stock price is less than 105% of the conversion price when the fundamental change occurs. In addition, a merger or consolidation triggers a right to convert the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012, which if exercised, must be settled all or in part in cash and this conversion right may delay or prevent a change of control. Conversion of our 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 or 6.80% Convertible Senior Notes 2012 will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. If and to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 or the 6.80% Convertible Senior Notes due 2010, the conversion of some or all of the notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Future Changes in Accounting and Taxation Standards or Practices A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct business. For example, our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) titled, “Share-Based Payment” in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 will require us to measure all stock-based compensation awards using fair value method and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements. This will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as reported under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 