ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones that an investor faces. Additional risks that are not yet known to us or that we currently think are immaterial could also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business strategy is dependent on successfully identifying and integrating acquisitions as well as promoting internal growth. 12 Table of Contents Our business has grown significantly over the past several years as a result of both internal growth and acquisitions of existing businesses and their products. Identifying and pursuing acquisition opportunities, integrating these acquisitions into our business and managing their growth require a significant amount of management time and skill. We cannot assure that we will be effective in identifying, integrating or managing any acquisition target in the future. Our failure to successfully integrate and manage any future acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we continue to experience growth in our business, our growth could place a significant strain on our management, customer service, operations, sales and administrative personnel and other resources. To serve the needs of our existing and future customers, we will be required to train, motivate and manage qualified employees. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs to retain qualified management, sales and marketing, engineering, production, manufacturing and administrative personnel, as well as expenses for marketing and promotional activities. Our ability to manage our planned growth depends upon our success in expanding our operating, management and information and financial systems, which might significantly increase our operating expenses. We might not be able to manage effectively our future growth, and if we fail to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The development of new products entails substantial risk of failure. We are continually developing new products for which we believe there should be significant market demand. We cannot assure that we will successfully develop commercially viable products, that the products will be developed on a timely basis to meet market demand or that the relevant market will be properly identified. If we expend substantial resources in developing an unsuccessful product, operating results will be adversely affected. Our international operations are subject to different product standards as well as other operational risks. In fiscal 2009, sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for 41% of the Company’s total revenue. We expect that our international business will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Foreign regulatory bodies may establish product standards different from those in the U.S. and with which the Company’s current products do not comply. Our inability to design products that comply with foreign standards could have a material adverse effect on our future growth. Other risks related to our sales to customers outside of the United States include the possible disruption in transportation, difficulties in building and managing foreign distribution, fluctuation in the value of foreign currencies, import duties and quotas and unexpected economic and political changes in foreign markets. These factors might adversely affect international sales and our overall financial performance. The markets for our products are extremely competitive, and our competitors may be able to utilize existing resource advantages to our detriment. The markets in which the Company competes are subject to rapid and substantial changes in technology and are characterized by extensive research and development and intense competition. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, research and development and management resources than we do. These competitors might be able to use their resources, reputations and ability to leverage existing customer relationships to give them a competitive advantage over us. They might also succeed in developing products that are at least as reliable and effective as our products that make additional measurements, that are less costly than our products or that provide alternatives to our products. We are dependent on the agricultural marketplace, which is affected by factors beyond our control. Our primary customers are in the agricultural and food production industries. Economic conditions affecting agricultural industries are cyclical and are dependent upon many factors outside our control, including weather conditions or changes in consumption patterns. An economic downturn in the agricultural marketplace could adversely affect our sales. 13 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The mix of products sold and the acceptance of new products, in addition to other factors, could contribute to this quarterly variability. We operate with relatively little backlog and have few long-term customer contracts. Substantially all of our product revenue in each quarter results from orders received in that quarter. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on expectation of future revenue levels. A shortfall in expected revenue could, therefore, result in a disproportionate decrease in our net income. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to obtain protection for the intellectual property utilized in our products. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to obtain protection in the United States and other countries for our products by establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Patent applications filed by the Company may not result in the issuance of patents or, if issued, may not be issued in a form that will be commercially advantageous to us. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of time of patent protection we may have for our products. We also cannot assure that our nondisclosure agreements, together with trade secrets and other common law rights, will provide meaningful protection for the Company’s trade secrets and other proprietary information. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights domestically or in foreign jurisdictions, we may incur substantial costs and our business, including our business prospects, could be substantially harmed. From time to time, the Company has received notices alleging that the Company’s products infringe third party proprietary rights. Whether the manufacture, sale or use of current products, or whether any products under development would, upon commercialization, infringe any patent claim will not be known with certainty unless and until a court interprets the patent claim in the context of litigation. If an infringement allegation is made against us, we may seek to invalidate the asserted patent claim and/or to allege non-infringement of the asserted patent claim. In order for us to invalidate a U.S. patent claim, we would need to rebut the presumption of validity afforded to issue patents in the United States with clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof. The outcome of infringement litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, and also the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. Our defense of an infringement litigation lawsuit could result in significant expense. Regardless of the outcome, infringement litigation could significantly disrupt our marketing, development and commercialization efforts, divert our management’s attention and consume our financial resources. In the event that we are found to infringe any valid claim in a patent held by a third party, we may, among other things, be required to: • Pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • Cease the development, manufacture, importation, use and sale of products that infringe the patent rights of others, through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • Expend significant resources to redesign our technology so that it does not infringe others’ patent rights, or to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property, which may not be possible; • Discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; and/or • Obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. 14 Table of Contents Any development or acquisition of non-infringing products or technology or licenses could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are required to, but cannot, obtain a license to valid patent rights held by a third party, we would likely be prevented from commercializing the relevant product, or from further manufacture, sale or use of the relevant product. We are subject to substantial governmental regulation. A portion of our products are regulated by various domestic and foreign government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Although less than 10% of our revenues is currently derived from products requiring government approval prior to sale, a significant portion of our revenues is derived from products used to monitor and detect the presence of residues that are regulated by various government agencies. Furthermore, a significant portion of the Company’s growth may be affected by the implementation of new regulations. We are dependent on key employees. Our success depends, in large part, on our chairman, president and other members of our management team. Our loss of any of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We maintain certain incentive plans for key employees, and most of these employees have been with the Company in excess of five years. However, we have not executed long-term employment agreements with any of these employees and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Our success also depends, significantly, on our ability to continue to attract such personnel. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified persons when required and on acceptable terms. Our business may be subject to product liability claims. The manufacturing and distribution of the Company’s products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims being asserted against us. Regardless of whether we are ultimately determined to be liable or our products are determined to be defective, we might incur significant legal expenses not covered by insurance. In addition, product liability litigation could damage our reputation and impair our ability to market our products, regardless of the outcome. Litigation could also impair our ability to retain product liability insurance or make our insurance more expensive. Although the Company currently maintains liability insurance, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. If we are subject to an uninsured or inadequately insured product liability claim, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Market prices for securities of technology companies are highly volatile. The market prices for securities of technology companies have been volatile in the past and could continue to be volatile in the future. Fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period could have a significant impact on the market price of our common shares. Operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which we do business. Future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations in each of the countries where the Company conducts business, including the United States. Additionally, the Company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions and must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in significant income tax adjustments that could negatively impact the Company’s future operating results. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - NONE 