Item 1A Risk Factors The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware or that management currently considers immaterial may also impair our business operations. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Future Loan Losses May Exceed Our Allowance for Loan Losses We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. The continued downturn in the economy or the housing and real estate market downturn in our market areas or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. This deterioration in economic conditions could result in losses to the Bank in excess of loan loss allowances. - 20 - - Table of Contents Part I (Continued) Item 1A (Continued) Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to ensure repayment. As a result, we may experience loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. Our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. As a result of a difficult real estate market, we have increased our allowance from $15.51 million as of December 31, 2007 to $17.02 million as of December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to increase our allowance in 2009; however, we can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See the section captioned “Allowance for Possible Loan Losses” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Our Business Has Been and May Continue to be Adversely Affected by Current Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and 2008 in the banking industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued into 2009. In addition, as a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a broad range of industries faces significant difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and liquidity concerns in the global credit markets. At the same time we have seen unemployment increase significantly. - 21 - - Table of Contents Part I (Continued) Item 1A (Continued) As a result of the current economic environment, many financial institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Consequently, competition among financial institutions for quality loans and deposits has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many real estate dependent loans have declined and may continue to decline. Financial stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has become more difficult compared to recent years. As a result, there is potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. The impact of the recession extending for a lengthy time may adversely impact our financial performance and our stock price. In addition, further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for possible loan losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely magnify the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and many others in the banking industry. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve anytime soon. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be negatively impacted. Rapidly Changing Interest Rate Environments Could Reduce Our Net Interest Margin, Net Interest Income, Fee Income and Net Income Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are key drivers of our net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth particularly in construction lending, an important factor in the Company’s revenue growth over the years. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities and, therefore, decrease net interest income. In response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve reduced interest rates by a total of 400 basis points since December 2007, which likely will reduce our net interest income during the first quarter of 2009 and the foreseeable future. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere for further discussion of interest rate market risk. - 22 - - Table of Contents Part I (Continued) Item 1A (Continued) Our Business is Subject to the Success of the Local Economies Where We Operate Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. We are currently experiencing adverse economic conditions in some of our market areas, which affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The market value of the real estate securing our loans as collateral has been adversely affected by the slowing economy and unfavorable change in economic conditions in our market areas and could be further adversely affected in the future. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 84.8 percent of our loans receivable were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by the adverse market and economic conditions, including the downturn in the real estate market in the state of Georgia will adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Currently, we are experiencing such an economic downturn, and if it continues, our operations could be further adversely affected. We Make and Hold in Our Portfolio a Significant Number of Land Acquisition and Development and Construction Loans, Which in the Current Market Environment Pose More Credit Risk than Other Types of Loans Typically Made by Financial Institutions We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $160 million of our loan portfolio represents loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. These land acquisition and development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risks, and risks posed by completing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Current and Anticipated Deterioration in the Housing Market and the Homebuilding Industry May Lead to Increased Loss Severities and Further Worsening of Delinquencies and Nonperforming Assets in Our Loan Portfolios. Consequently, Our Results of Operations May be Adversely Impacted There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. - 23 - - Table of Contents Part I (Continued) Item 1A (Continued) The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including some of the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and nonperforming assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term and, accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. Liquidity Risk Could Impact Our Ability to Fund Operations and Jeopardize Our Financial Condition Liquidity is essential for our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings or the sale of securities or loans could have a significant negative impact on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the banking industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, brokered deposits, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Atlanta and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB of Atlanta or market conditions were to change. Although we consider these sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Likewise, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our business strategies, in connection with future acquisitions or for other reasons. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. Financial stock prices have been negatively affected by the recent adverse economic environment, as has the ability of the financial services industry to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. We actively review the depository institutions that hold our federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. We are currently not able to provide assurances that access to our cash equivalents and federal funds sold will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our emphasis is primarily on safety of principal and we diversify our due from banks and federal funds sold among correspondent banks to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. The financials of the correspondent banks are reviewed routinely as part of our asset/liability management process. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U. S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While we monitor and adjust the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail and could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. - 24 - - Table of Contents Part I (Continued) Item 1A (Continued) Concern of Customers Over Deposit Insurance May Cause a Decrease in Deposits With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Colony began offering CDARS product during 2008 that provides customers the opportunity to place uninsured deposits into the CDARS network and receive full FDIC insurance coverage and with the reciprocal agreement a like amount of funds is placed back in our bank, though these reciprocal deposits are classified as brokered deposits. Our Federal Deposit Insurance Premium Could be Substantially Higher in the Future, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. On October 16, 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio, which decreased to 1.01 percent of insured deposits on June 30, 2008, to the statutory minimum of 1.15 percent of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. For the first quarter of 2009 only, the FDIC increased all FDIC deposit assessment rates by 7 basis points. These new rates range from 12-14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 50 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. Under the FDIC’s restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to establish new initial base assessment rates that will be subject to adjustment as described below. Beginning April 1, 2009, the base assessment rates would range from 10-14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 45 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, CDARS, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, including Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Either an increase in the Risk Category of the Bank or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. There can be no Assurance That the Recently Enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Will Help Stabilize the U.S. Economy and Financial System On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was enacted. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). The Company participated in the CPP Program and received $28 million on January 9, 2009 through the issuance of preferred stock along with warrants. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLG Program”), which we opted to remain in the unlimited insurance coverage for non-interest bearing accounts and now accounts in which the rate of interest paid is 0.50 percent or less but opted-out of the debt guarantee portion of this program. - 25 - - Table of Contents Part I (Continued) Item 1A (Continued) In addition, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) in an effort to save and create jobs, stimulate the U.S. economy and promote long-term growth and stability. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA, ARRA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, ARRA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of the current financial markets conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA and ARRA are is relatively new legislation and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. This is particularly true given the change in administration that occurred on January 20, 2009. There can be no assurance as to the effects that such changes will have on their in improving the U.S. economy effectiveness or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Treasury “Stress Tests” and Other Actions may Adversely Affect Bank Operations and Value of Shares On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury Secretary outlined a plan to restore stability to the financial system. This announcement included reference to a plan by the Treasury to conduct “stress tests” of banks which received funds under the Capital Purchase Program and similar Treasury programs. The methods and procedures to be used by the Treasury in conducting its “stress tests,” how these methods and procedures will be applied, and the significance or consequence of such tests presently are not known. Any of these or their consequences could adversely affect us, our bank operations and the value of Colony shares, among other things. Slower than Anticipated Growth in New Branches and New Product and Service Offerings Could Result in Reduced Net Income We have placed a strategic emphasis on expanding our branch network and product offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products. New branches and products require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new investments can decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by those investments, and opening new branches and introducing new products could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. The Financial Services Industry is Very Competitive We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other nonbanking businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see “Business – Markets and Competition” in Item 1 above. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share, and income from deposits, loans and other products may be reduced. - 26 - - Table of Contents Part I (Continued) Item 1A (Continued) Inability to Hire or Retain Certain Key Professionals, Management and Staff could Adversely Affect Our Revenues and Net Income We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 