Item1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as discussed on page 1. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statements in this Report or elsewhere. Our business routinely encounters and addresses risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, entertain the possibility of future losses and cannot assure you that we will become or remain profitable. Historically, we have incurred significant losses and have had negative cash flows from our phototherapy operations. Our surgical products business also has generated losses in recent years. To date, we have dedicated most of our financial resources to research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $105.3 million. Our future revenues and success depend significantly upon acceptance of our excimer laser systems for the treatment principally of psoriasis, but also of vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma. Our XTRAC system for the treatment of these conditions generates revenues, but those revenues are presently insufficient to generate consistent, positive cash flows from our operations in the two XTRAC-related business segments. Our future revenues and success also depend on the continued growth of the revenue from the skin health and hair care products of our skincare business, revenue stability within our surgical products business and growth from our PTL products in the consumer market. Our ability to market our products and services successfully and the expected benefits to be obtained from our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as unforeseen costs and expenses, technological changes, economic downturns, competitive factors or other events beyond our control. We intend to scale our expenditures in 2009 to expected and realized revenues, but there can be no assurance that we shall realize on expected revenues from our established business segments or from the business of PTL, which must be integrated into our business plan and developed. Neither can we assure that we shall not incur operating losses. In the event that such growth is less than forecasted in our 2009 operating plan, management has developed contingency plans to reduce our operating expenses. However, in any case, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liquidity to allow us to continue to operate our business or prevent the possible impairment of our assets. We cannot assure you that we will market any products successfully, operate profitably in the future, or that we will not require significant additional financing in order to accomplish our business plan. 18 We may fail to meet the ongoing Nasdaq listing requirements. If our stock price falls below $1.00 for more than 30 consecutive trading days again, or if we fail to satisfy any other Nasdaq listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq. We were on Nasdaq’s watch list twice in 2008. After we had effected the 1-for-7 reverse stock split on January 26, 2009, the stock price rose substantially and we were taken off the Nasdaq watch list. While Nasdaq has suspended the minimum price requirement, we do not expect that such suspension will be permanent. If we are put on Nasdaq’s watch list again and not taken off, we may be de-listed from Nasdaq. If we are not able to find an alternate listing, we would be in default under the Securities Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) with Perseus Partners VII, L.P., an investment fund managed by Perseus, L.L.C. (the “Investor”), and such a default would result in cross-default under the CIT facility, which would give our lendors the right to require all outstanding amounts to be paid immediately. We may need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We have historically financed our activities through working capital provided from operations, the private placement of equity securities and from lines of credit. We believe that our cash balance and other existing financial resources, and revenues from sales, distribution, licensing and manufacturing relationships, should be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements beyond the second quarter of 2010. However, we may have to raise substantial additional capital if: · renewal of debt financing for capital expenditures cannot be obtained; · operating losses continue, because anticipated demand for the dermatology products, including our PTL products, does not meet our current expectations; · we fail to maintain existing, or develop new, customers or corporate partners for the marketing and distribution of our skincare products; · we need to maintain or accelerate favorable, but costlier, growth of our revenues; · changes in our research and development plans necessitate unexpected, large future expenditures; · the Investor does not convert its note, thereby obliging us to have funds to pay the note off; or · costs to defend existing and unknown future litigation exceed our current planned resources. We must secure the Investor’s consent to incur debt financing. To raise additional equity financing, we must first offer our terms to our Investor, and if the Investor declines, such terms, then we have 30 days in which to pursue subscriptions and another 30 days in which to consummate the subscriptions. Uncertainty in the global credit markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, and we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on favorable terms or at all. The global credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which, among other things, have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance our existing debt on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current operations, as well as future acquisitions and development. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. The uncertainty in the credit markets could also make it more challenging for us to carry out our financing objectives, and federal legislation enacted to alleviate the current disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse affect on our ability to raise other types of financing. 19 In addition, if we raise additional financing via issuance of securities, such future issuance of our securities may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: · execute our growth plan for the XTRAC system ; skincare products and our PTL products; · expand our manufacturing facilities, if necessary, based on increased demand for the XTRAC system or other surgical products or new skincare products, which may be introduced; · take advantage of future opportunities, including synergistic acquisitions; · respond to customers, competitors or violators of our proprietary and contractual rights; · meet our debt obligations; or · remain in operation. We must secure the Investor’s consent to incur debt financing. To raise additional equity financing, we must first offer our terms to our Investor, and if the Investor declines, such terms, then we have 30 days in which to pursue subscriptions and another 30 days in which to consummate the subscriptions. We are susceptible to the current conditions of the global economy. If the conditions do not improve, our business could be adversely affected. The current financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a substantial slowdown in the global economy that could affect our business and financial performance by reducing the prices that consumers, our customers and third party insurers and other reimbursement organizations may be willing or able to pay for our products. These conditions may also reduce demand for our products, which could in turn negatively impact our sales and revenue generation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects. In addition, we may experience difficulties in scaling our operations to react to economic pressures in the United States. We are affected by the market’s currency conditions. Our PTL business is exposed to currency fluctuations. The majority of sales invoicing is done in either Euros or US dollars, while product costs and the overhead of the UK offices is denominated in Pounds Sterling. Our US operations, with US dollar operating costs, serve to reduce the exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Pounds Sterling or the Euro. Our laser treatments of psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma, our skincare products and our surgical laser products and any of our future products or services may fail to gain market acceptance, which could adversely affect our competitive position. No independent studies with regard to the feasibility of our proposed business plan, including integration of the PTL products into our corporate operations, have been conducted by third parties with respect to our present and future business prospects and capital requirements. We have generated limited commercial distribution for our XTRAC system and our other products. Skincare products sales are dependent on existing strategic partners for distributing and marketing our products. It is still not established that the PTL devices targeted for the consumer market will be widely accepted in that market. Though we were successful in assigning our spa business to Universal Business Solutions in December 2007, we may still be unsuccessful in continuing our existing, or developing new, strategic partners in order to maintain or expand the markets for the skincare business’ existing or future products. In addition, our infrastructure to enable such expansion, though stronger than in the past, is still limited. Even if adequate financing is available and our products are ready for market, we cannot assure you that our products and services will find sufficient acceptance in the marketplace to fulfill our long and short-term goals. Our efforts to help physicians increase patient awareness and interest in the XTRAC system may fail, as may also our efforts through our clinical specialists to improve and increase physicians’ effective utilization of the XTRAC system. 20 We also face a risk that other companies in the market for dermatological products and services may be able to provide dermatologists a higher overall yield on investment and therefore compromise our ability to increase our base of users and ensure they engage in optimal usage of our products. If, for example, such other companies have products (such as Botox, or topical creams for disease management) that require less time commitment from the dermatologist and yield an attractive return on the dermatologist’s time and investment, we may find that our efforts to increase our base of users is hindered, or even if we place a laser or LED device with a dermatologist, we may find that insufficient time is devoted to increasing patient awareness of laser treatment of psoriasis. While we have engaged in clinical studies for our psoriasis treatment, and based on these studies, we have gained FDA clearance, appropriate CPT reimbursement codes for treatment and suitable reimbursement rates from CMS for those codes, we may face other hurdles to market acceptance. If, for example, practitioners in significant numbers wait to see longer-term studies or if it becomes necessary to conduct studies corroborating the role of the XTRAC system as a second-line therapy for treating psoriasis or if patients do not elect to undergo psoriasis treatment using the XTRAC system. We have not had sufficient time to observe the long-term effectiveness or potential side effects of our treatment system for psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis or leukoderma nor to gauge fully what marketing and sales programs, if any, are effective in increasing patients’ demand for the treatment of psoriasis with the XTRAC system. We have designed the XTRAC system so that a properly in-serviced medical technician in a physician’s office may, under the physician’s supervision, safely and effectively administer treatments to a patient. In fact, the CMS reimbursement rates at the lower labor rates are achieved through such delegation. Nevertheless, whether a treatment may be delegated, and if so to whom and to what extent, are matters that may vary state by state, as these matters are within the province of the state medical boards. In states that may be more restrictive in such delegation, a physician may decline to adopt the XTRAC system into his or her practice, deeming it to be fraught with too many constraints and finding other outlets for the physician’s time and staff time to be more remunerative. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in persuading such medical boards that a liberal standard for delegation is appropriate for the XTRAC system, based on its design for ease and safety of use. If we are not successful, we may find that even if a geographic region has wide insurance reimbursement, the region’s physicians may decline to adopt the XTRAC system into their practices. We therefore cannot assure you that the marketplace will be receptive to our excimer laser technology or skincare products over competing products, services and therapies or that a cure will not be found for the underlying diseases we are focused on treating. Failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependent on intellectual property rights held by us, and our business will be adversely affected by direct competition if we are unable to protect these rights. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain and defend our patents. However, we cannot guarantee that the technologies and processes covered by our patents will not be found to be obvious or substantially similar to prior work, which could render these patents unenforceable. Moreover, as our patents expire, competitors may utilize the technology found in such patents to commercialize their own laser systems. While we seek to offset the losses relating to expiring patents by securing additional patents on critical, commercially desirable improvements to the inventions of the expiring patents, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing such additional patents, or that such additional patents will adequately offset the effect of the expiring patents. Of particular note is U.S. Patent No. 4,891,818, the so-called “818 Patent”, which covers, among other things, the design of the gas chamber in the XTRAC laser. The ‘818 Patent expired on August 31, 2007; it no longer serves as a barrier to entry to the US market. The additional patent rights we seek may serve less to bar competitors from entry and may serve more, when aggregated with other clinical and competitive strengths, to differentiate and distinguish our product (e.g. the Ultra™ and the XTRAC Velocity™), in both its utility and its range of applications, from those of competitors. If we are unable through our technological innovations to preserve our proprietary rights, our ability to market the XTRAC system could be materially and adversely affected. 21 A U.S. patent relating to a copper peptide compound manufactured and used in products distributed by Neutrogena under the Neutrogena license agreement expired on February 5, 2005. Upon expiration of this patent, the agreement specifies that lower royalty percentages from sales of such products be used for the remaining term, the impact of which is a reduction in the average effective royalty rate. The actual amount of royalty income recognized in future periods is dependent upon the royalty percentages in effect during the period and the actual applicable sales reported by Neutrogena, which can vary from quarter to quarter. The expiration of the patent allows competitors to apply the technology covered by that patent in their products. We had licensed marketing rights to MD Lash Factor® eyelash conditioner. Allergan, Inc. brought a patent infringement suit under two US patents against us and several other companies which also market eyelash conditioners based on prostaglandins. Since our licensor was also our supplier, our margins were lower than the margins we have on products for which we control the supply, and our legal defense costs in the infringement suit further depleted our profits. For this reason, we settled with Allergan and exited the market for eyelash conditioners based on prostaglandins in January 2009. In place of MD Lash Factor, we are introducing our own, peptide-based eyelash conditioner. We shall rely on certain of our PTL patents to protect the home-use market for two of our PTL hand-held devices. If the patents prove unenforceable or circumventable, we may lose growth from these PTL products. Trade secrets and other proprietary information which are not protected by patents are also critical to our business. We attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, employees and consultants. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are and even if we are able to prove the breach or that our technology has been misappropriated under applicable state law, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. In addition, costly and time-consuming litigation may be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights; even should we prevail in such litigation, the party we prevail over may have insufficient resources available to satisfy a judgment. Further, our skincare business seeks to establish customer loyalty, in part, by means of our use of trademarks. It can be difficult and costly to defend trademarks from encroachment (especially on the internet, as for example on eBay) or misappropriation overseas. Third parties may also challenge the validity of certain of our trademarks. In either eventuality, our customers may become confused and direct their purchases to competitors. Third parties may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information that allow them to develop technologies and products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own. Without the protection afforded by our patent, trade secret and proprietary information rights, we may face direct competition from others commercializing their products using our technology, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our prospects. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time-consuming and expensive, and if we are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. We cannot be sure that the products, services, technologies and advertising we employ in our business do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject in the ordinary course of our business to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property or derivative rights of others. Any legal action against us claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products or our methods or processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects by: · requiring us, or our collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected products, methods or processes, and such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · preventing us from making, using or selling the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject us to potential liability for damages; · consuming a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources; or 22 · resulting in litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly or not covered by our insurance policies, whether we win or lose. Our success depends on third-party reimbursement of patients' costs for our XTRAC system, which could result in potentially reduced prices or reduced demand. Our ability to market the XTRAC system and other treatment products successfully will depend in large part on the extent to which various third parties are willing to reimburse patients or providers for the costs of medical procedures utilizing such products. These third parties include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. Third-party payers are systematically challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. They may deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Further, although third-parties may approve reimbursement, such approvals may be under terms and conditions that discourage use of the XTRAC system. Accordingly, if less costly drugs or other treatments are available, third-party payers may not authorize or may limit reimbursement for the use of our products, even if our products are safer or more effective than the alternatives. Although we have received reimbursement approvals from an increasing number of private healthcare plans, we cannot give assurance that private plans will continue to adopt or maintain favorable reimbursement policies or to accept the XTRAC system in its clinical role as a second-line therapy in the treatment of psoriasis. Additionally, third-party payers may require further clinical studies or changes to our pricing structure and revenue model before authorizing reimbursement. As of March 19, 2009, we estimate, based on published coverage policies and on payment practices of private and Medicare insurance plans, that more than 90% of the insured population in the United States is covered by insurance coverage or payment policies that reimburse physicians for using the XTRAC system for treatment of psoriasis. Based on these reports and estimates, we are continuing the implementation of a roll-out strategy for the XTRAC system in the United States in selected areas of the country where reimbursement is widely available. The success of the roll-out depends on increasing physician and patient demand for the treatment. We can give no assurance that health insurers will not adversely modify their reimbursement policies for the use of the XTRAC system in the future. We intend to seek coverage and reimbursement for the use of the XTRAC system to treat other inflammatory skin disorders, after additional clinical studies are initiated. There can be no assurances that we will be in position to expand coverage for vitiligo or to seek reimbursement for the use of the XTRAC system to treat atopic dermatitis or leukoderma, or, if we do, that any health insurers will agree to any reimbursement policy. Cost containment measures and any general healthcare reform could adversely affect our ability to market our products. Cost containment measures instituted by healthcare providers and insurers and any general healthcare reform could affect our ability to receive revenue from the use of our XTRAC system or to market our skincare products, PTL light-based products and surgical laser products, and may have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot predict the effect of future legislation or regulation concerning the healthcare industry and third-party coverage and reimbursement on our business. In addition, fundamental reforms in the healthcare industry in the United States and the European Union continue to be considered, although we cannot predict whether or when any healthcare reform proposals will be adopted and what impact such proposals might have on demand for our products. If the effectiveness and safety of our products are not supported by long-term data, our revenues could decline. Our products may not be accepted if we do not produce clinical data supported by the independent efforts of clinicians. We received clearance from the FDA for the use of the XTRAC system to treat psoriasis based upon our study of a limited number of patients. Safety and efficacy data presented to the FDA for the XTRAC system was based on studies on these patients. For the treatment of vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma, we have received clearance from the FDA for the use of the XTRAC system based primarily on equivalence of predicate devices; we may discover that physicians will expect clinical data on such treatments with the XTRAC system. We may find that data from longer-term psoriasis patient follow-up studies may be inconsistent with those indicated by our relatively short-term data. If longer-term patient studies or clinical experience indicate that treatment with the XTRAC system does not provide patients with sustained benefits or that treatment with our product is less effective or less safe than our current data suggests, our revenues could decline. We can give no assurance that we may find that our data is not substantiated in studies involving more patients; in such a case we may never achieve significant revenues or profitability. 23 Certain indications for use for the PTL light-based products are permitted in Europe and elsewhere in the world, but are not approved for marketing in the U.S. Such approvals could be costly and take significant time to obtain. It is uncertain whether the products will be successful in the U.S. if we are not permitted, as elsewhere in the world, to market the unapproved indications for use. Any failure in our customer education efforts could significantly reduce product marketing. It is important to the success of our marketing efforts to educate physicians and technicians in the techniques of using the XTRAC system. We rely on physicians to spend their time and money to attend our pre-sale educational sessions. Positive results using the XTRAC system are highly dependent upon proper physician and technician technique. If physicians and technicians use the XTRAC system suboptimally or improperly, they may have unsatisfactory patient outcomes or cause patient injury, which may give rise to negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation as a medical device company and our revenues and profitability. Similarly, it is important to our success that we educate and persuade hospitals, surgery centers and practitioners of the clinical and economic benefits of our surgical products and services. If we fail to educate and persuade our customers, we may suffer adversely in our reputation and our revenues and our profitability. If revenue from a significant customer declines, we may have difficulty replacing the lost revenue, which would negatively affect our results and operations. Neutrogena, one of the customers for the skin health and hair care products segment that we acquired from ProCyte, has historically accounted for a significant portion of that segment’s net revenue. ProCyte’s net revenues from Neutrogena for bulk sale of copper peptide compound in 2004 were $2,768,072 (bulk compound $1,553,999 and royalties $1,214,073), or approximately 20.8% of ProCyte’s gross revenues of $13,320,200 (revenues which pre-date our acquisition and which are not reflected in our financial statements). By contrast, the revenues from Neutrogena in 2008 were $262,977 (bulk compound $256,000 and royalties $6,977), or approximately 2.0% of ProCyte’s gross revenues of $12,829,816. The license agreement with Neutrogena expires in April 2010. A U.S. patent related to the Neutrogena license agreement expired February 5, 2005, the effect of which was a reduction in the percentage paid as a royalty during the remaining royalty period under the license agreement. To date, we have not found any one customer which replaces the level of business which Neutrogena once represented to ProCyte. Instead, we have sought to recoup the loss through other customers and channels. Excluding niche marketing efforts, the Skin Care segment targets its sales in the U.S. market to physicians, who then mark the products up for sale to their patients. No single practice in itself is generally responsible for a significant proportion of our sales. However, a number of practices, specializing in hair transplants, are united under the management of a single group, and this group accounts for a disproportionate share of our hair care products aimed at the care of a scalp that has received a hair transplant. Revenues from this customer were $990,455 in 2008 and $1,218,698 in 2007. We find as well that a few physicians re-sell our products not just to their own patients, but also at discounted prices on the internet. These practices undercut the sales of other physicians and violate our internet sales policy, but it can be difficult to enforce the sales policy. In the International Dermatology Equipment segment (as well as in the Surgical Products segment), we depend on the international arena for a material portion of our sales on several key distributors, as for example our master distributor in the Pacific Rim. If we lose one of these distributors, our sales of phototherapy and surgical lasers are likely to suffer in the short term. 24 Our PTL products will likely be targeted to the consumer market significantly through mass retailers. It may be unfeasible to obtain long-term purchase commitments from such retailers. Loss of such a retailer could adversely impact revenues from the consumer market. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights outside the United States. Intellectual property law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries is currently undergoing review and revision. The laws of some countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. The intellectual property rights we enjoy in one country or jurisdiction may be rejected in other countries or jurisdictions, or, if recognized there, the rights may be significantly diluted. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign intellectual property rights, or those of our competitors, which could result in substantial cost and divert our resources, efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. If we are unable to defend our intellectual property rights internationally, we may face increased competition outside the United States, which could materially and adversely affect our future business, prospects, operating results and financial results and financial condition. Our failure to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances or approvals, or equivalents thereof in relevant foreign markets, could hurt our ability to distribute and market our products. Our laser products are considered medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in foreign countries where we intend to do business. In addition, certain of our skincare products and product candidates may be regulated by a number of divisions of the FDA and in other countries by similar health and regulatory authorities. We may also find that if a cosmetic product of ours competes with a third-party’s drug product, competitive and regulatory pressure may be applied against the cosmetic product. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we wish to market in the United States and certain skincare products that we may wish to market must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process may take from four to twelve months, or longer. The pre-market application approval process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It may take one to three years or even longer. Delays in obtaining regulatory clearance or approval could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearances for our XTRAC system for use in treating psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma, and extensive 510(k) clearances for our surgical products, our clearances may be subject to revocation if post-marketing data demonstrates safety issues or lack of effectiveness. Similar clearance processes may apply in foreign countries. Further, more stringent regulatory requirements or safety and quality standards may be issued in the future with an adverse effect on our business. Certain indications for use for our PTL light-based products are permitted in Europe and elsewhere in the world, but are not approved for marketing in the U.S. Such approvals could be costly and take significant time to obtain. It is uncertain whether the products will be successful in the U.S. if we are not permitted, as elsewhere in the world, to market the unapproved indications for use. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all material applicable regulations of the FDA, current regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation. We are also subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and other third party regulatory groups. Future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, with possible retroactive effect, may vary from current interpretations and may adversely affect our business and prospects. Our market acceptance in international markets requires regulatory approvals from foreign governments and may depend on third party reimbursement of participants cost. We have introduced our XTRAC system into markets in more than 30 countries in Europe, the Middle East, the Far East and Southeast Asia, and in Australia, South Africa and parts of Central and South America. We intend to expand the number of countries in these markets where we distribute our products through the network of distributors which PTL has built. We cannot be certain that our distributors will be successful in marketing XTRAC systems in these or other countries or that our distributors will purchase XTRAC systems beyond their current contractual obligations or in accordance with our expectations. 25 Underlying our approvals in a number of countries are our quality systems. We are regularly audited on the compliance of our quality systems with applicable requirements, which can be extensive and complex and subject to change due to evolving interpretations and changing requirements. Adverse audit findings could negatively affect our ability to market our products. Even if we obtain and maintain the necessary foreign regulatory registrations or approvals, market acceptance of our products in international markets may be dependent, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within applicable healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may seek international reimbursement approvals for our products, but we cannot assure you that any such approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to receive international reimbursement approvals in any given market could have a material adverse effect on the acceptance or growth of our products in that market or others. We have limited marketing experience, and our failure to build and manage our marketing force or to market and distribute our products effectively would hurt our revenues and profits. There are significant risks involved in building and managing our sales and marketing force and marketing our products, including our ability: · to hire, as needed, a sufficient number of qualified sales and marketing people with the skills and understanding to market the XTRAC system, our skincare products and our surgical products effectively; · to adequately train our sales and marketing force in the use and benefits of our products and services, making them more effective promoters; · to set the prices and other terms and conditions for treatments using an XTRAC system in a complex legal environment so that they will be accepted as attractive and appropriate alternatives to conventional modalities and treatments; and · to cope with employee turnover among the sales force in the skincare business, which is highly competitive for talented sales representatives. To increase acceptance and utilization of our XTRAC system, we may have to expand our sales and marketing programs in the United States. While we may be able to draw on currently available personnel within our organization to meet this need, we also expect that we will have to increase the number of representatives devoted to the sales and marketing programs and broaden, through such representatives, the talents we have at our disposal. In some cases, we may look outside our organization for assistance in marketing our products. We have relatively limited marketing experience and cannot predict whether the anticipated sales and marketing programs will be successful, either in design or implementation. In similar fashion, we cannot predict how successful we may be in marketing our skincare and surgical products in the United States, nor can we predict the success of new skincare or surgical products that we may introduce. There are, for example, skincare products and diode lasers already in the market against which our comparable products must compete. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in marketing and selling our skin health and hair care products or our diode laser. The home-use consumer market is new to us. We may be unsuccessful in accessing this market with our PTL products or with our skincare products. Distribution through the consumer market will be principally through mass-retail chains. While the volumes will be higher, the margins will be lower. The margins to our own suppliers will be lower as well. It may also prove difficult obtaining long-term commitments from the retailers. If we are unable to obtain favorable pricing or such long-term commitments, our efforts in the home-use consumer market may be unsuccessful. We may encounter difficulties manufacturing our products in commercial quantities, which could adversely impact the rate at which we grow. 26 We may encounter difficulties manufacturing our products because we have limited experience manufacturing our products in significant commercial quantities and because we will, in order to increase our manufacturing output significantly, have to attract and retain qualified employees, who are in short supply, for assembly and testing operations. We shall depend on contract manufacturers for PTL products. The consumer market products are geared to be high-volume, lower-margined products. We face the risk that there will be supply chain problems if the volumes do not match to the margins. Although we believe that our current manufacturing facilities are adequate to support our commercial manufacturing activities for the foreseeable future, we may be required to expand or restructure our manufacturing facilities to increase capacity substantially. If we are unable to provide customers with high-quality products in a timely manner, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance for our XTRAC system or achieve market acceptance and growth for our skincare products. Our inability to manufacture or commercialize our devices successfully could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. We may have difficulty managing our growth. If private carriers continue to approve favorable reimbursement policies for psoriasis and our marketing programs are successful in increasing utilization of the XTRAC system, we expect to experience growth in the number of our employees and customers and the scope of our operations. We also intent to enter the home-use market with our PTL products. Such growth may place a strain on our management and operations. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon our ability to broaden our management team, attract, hire and retain skilled employees and the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to respond to increasing compliance requirements. Our future success is heavily dependent upon achieving such growth and acceptance of our products. If we cannot scale our business appropriately or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth and complexity and new product introductions, a key part of our business strategy may not be successful. We are reliant on a limited number of suppliers for production of key products. Production of our XTRAC system requires specific component parts obtained from our suppliers. Production of our surgical laser systems requires some component parts that will become harder to procure, as the design of a system ages. Similarly, our skincare products may require compounds that can be efficiently produced only by a limited number of suppliers. Our PTL segment has one primary supplier of LEDs and relies on contract manufacturers. While we believe that we could find alternative suppliers, in the event that our suppliers fail to meet our needs, a change in suppliers or any significant delay in our ability to have access to such resources would have a material adverse effect on our delivery schedules, business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to respond to rapid changes in technology and its applications and intense competition in the medical devices industry or the development of a cure for skin conditions treated by our products could make our treatment system obsolete. The medical devices industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. To be successful, we must respond to new developments in technology, new applications of existing technology and new treatment methods. We may also encounter in the consumer market greater pressure for innovation in order to satisfy a demand for novelty. Our response may be thwarted if we require, but cannot secure, rights to essential third-party intellectual property. We compete against numerous companies offering alternative treatment systems to ours, some of which have greater financial, marketing and technical resources to utilize in pursuing technological development and new treatment methods. Our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if our medical devices fail to compete favorably with these technological developments, or if we fail to be responsive on a timely and effective basis to competitors’ new devices, applications, treatments or price strategies. For example, the development of a cure for psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis or leukoderma would eliminate the need for our XTRAC system for these diseases and would require us to focus on other uses of our technology, which would have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. 27 In addition, competition in the skin health and hair care markets is intense. Our skincare competitors include well-established pharmaceutical, cosmetic and healthcare companies such as Obagi, La Roche Posay, Pevonia, Declore, Murad and Allergan, as we have seen with respect to MD Lash Factor™. These competitors have substantially more financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more experience and capabilities in researching, developing and testing products in clinical trials, in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and in manufacturing, marketing and distribution than we do. Further, a number of smaller companies are developing or marketing competitive products. Our skincare competitors may succeed in developing and commercializing products or obtaining patent protection or other regulatory approvals for products more rapidly than we can. Competitive products may be manufactured and marketed more successfully than our potential skincare products. Such developments could render our existing or potential skincare products less competitive or obsolete and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we develop new products or improve our existing products, we may accelerate the economic obsolescence of the existing, unimproved products, and their components. The obsolescent products and related components may have little to no resale value, leading to an increase in the reserves we have against our inventory. Likewise, there is a risk that the new products or improved existing products may not achieve market acceptance and therefore also lead to an increase in the reserves against our inventory. Our products may be found defective or physicians and technicians may misuse our products and damages imposed on us may exceed our insurance coverage, or we may be subject to claims that are not covered by insurance. Product returns and the potential need to remedy defects or provide replacement products or parts for items shipped in volume could result in substantial costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and procedures may also expose us to product liability claims. Certain indications for use for our PTL light-based devices though patented outside the U.S., are not approved in the U.S. If a physician elects to apply an off-label use and the use leads to injury, we may be involved in costly litigation. In addition, the fact that we train technicians whom we do not supervise in the use of our XTRAC system when patients are treated may expose us to third-party claims if those doing the training are accused of providing inadequate training. We presently maintain liability insurance with coverage limits of at least $5,000,000 per occurrence. However, continuing insurance coverage may not be available at an acceptable cost, if at all. We thus may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy a liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to its reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we also may be subjected to third-party claims in the course of our business for which we have no insurance coverage. If we should be found liable for any such claim, we may suffer a material adverse effect on the business. If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, our business and operations may suffer. Our XTRAC system utilizes a xenon chloride gas mixture under high pressure, which is extremely corrosive. While methods for proper disposal and handling of this gas are well-known, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination, which could cause: · an interruption of our research and development efforts; · injury to our employees, physicians, technicians or patients that results in the payment of damages; or · liabilities under federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, transport and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. 28 From time to time, customers return surgical products that appear not to have performed to specification. Such products must be decontaminated before being returned to us. If they are not, our employees may be exposed to dangerous diseases. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management and technical team. In particular, our success depends in part upon the continued service and performance of: · Jeffrey F. O’Donnell, President and Chief Executive Officer; · Dennis M. McGrath, Chief Financial Officer; and · Michael R. Stewart, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. O’Donnell, Mr. McGrath, and Mr. Stewart, the loss of the services of one or more of these executive officers could adversely affect our ability to develop and introduce our new products. The competition for qualified personnel in the laser and skincare industries is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. In addition, we do not have key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We may be unsuccessful in attaining our goals from the acquisition of PTL. We acquired PTL with the following goals in mind: · that PTL’s extensive international network of distributors would present a growth opportunity for PhotoMedex to market its existing products; · that PTL will benefit from our significantly larger United States direct sales and marketing organization; · that PTL’s presence in the tanning spa and medi-spa markets would present a growth opportunity for PhotoMedex to market its existing products; · that the combined company may realize short-term cost savings and have the opportunity for additional longer-term cost efficiencies, thus providing additional cash flow for operations; · that PTL’s hand-held devices may open up to us a path to the consumer market. We have not begun to fully realize any of the goals. If we fail to attain some of the goals, the benefits of the acquisition could be limited and our overall business and financial health could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in integrating any other business we may acquire with our other business segments. As a part of our strategy to grow our business, we seek to make strategic acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies. We may not be successful in the future in identifying companies that meet our acquisition criteria. The failure to identify such companies may limit the rate at which we are able to grow our business. Furthermore, any future acquisitions that we do undertake could be accompanied by risks such as: · Difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; · Diversion of our management's attention from ongoing business concerns; 29 · Our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; · Additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; · Maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and · Impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. In addition, we may acquire additional companies in the medical products and services industry. Accordingly, in the ordinary course of our business, we regularly consider, evaluate and enter into negotiations related to potential acquisition opportunities. We may pay for these acquisitions in cash or securities, including equity securities, or a combination of both. We cannot assure you that attractive acquisition targets will be available at reasonable prices, that we will have sufficient authorized but unissued securities available to effect an acquisition, or that we will be successful in any such transaction. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: · diversion of our management’s attention; · integration of the acquired business with our business; and · unanticipated legal liabilities and other circumstances or events. Delaware law and our charter documents, as well as the SPA, contain provisions that could delay or prevent actual and potential changes in control, even if they would benefit stockholders. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a business combination between a corporation and an interested stockholder within three years of the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, except in limited circumstances. In addition, our bylaws contain certain provisions which require stockholders' actions to be taken at meetings and not by written consent, and also require supermajority votes of stockholders to notice special meetings of stockholders. Finally, pursuant to the SPA, the Investor, must consent to any change of control transaction, subject to certain exceptions. These provisions could delay or prevent actual and potential changes in control, even if they would benefit our stockholders. Potential fluctuations in our operating results could lead to fluctuations in the market price for our common stock. Our results of operations are expected to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter, depending upon numerous factors, including: · the present macroeconomic downturn in the global economy and financial industry, and governmental monetary and fiscal programs to stimulate better economic conditions; · healthcare reform and reimbursement policies; · demand for our products; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · increases in our manufacturing costs; · the number, timing and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by ourselves and our competitors; · the termination or expiration of significant royalty-generating licensing contracts to which we are party; · the expiration of certain of our key patents; 30 · our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis considering, among other things, delays associated with the FDA and other regulatory approval processes and the timing and results of future clinical trials; and · product quality problems, personnel changes, and changes in our business strategy. Our quarter-to-quarter operating results could also be affected by the timing and usage of individual laser units in the treatment of patients, since our revenue model for the XTRAC system is based on a payment-per-usage plan. Variations in the above operating factors could lead to significant fluctuations in the market price of our stock. Our stock price has been and continues to be volatile. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate due to various factors. These factors include: · acquisition-related announcements; · announcements by us or our competitors of new contracts, technological innovations or new products; · changes in government regulations; · fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; and · general market and economic conditions. In addition, the stock markets have, in recent years, experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. Market fluctuations, as well as economic conditions, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock. On January 27, 2009, we implemented a 1-for-7 reverse stock split to enable us to comply with Nasdaq’s minimum bid requirement, to meet a condition of the Securities Purchase Agreement dated August 4, 2008 with the Investor, and to be more attractive to institutional investors. It remains uncertain if the reverse split will have any impact in the volatility of our stock price. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, to provide funds for the expansion of our business. Limitations on director liability may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a director. Our certificate of incorporation provides, as permitted by governing Delaware law, that a director shall not be personally liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, with certain exceptions. These provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by stockholders on our behalf against a director. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify the past and present directors, officers and employees of ProCyte for certain matters, to the same extent such individuals are indemnified by ProCyte, for a period of six years following the effective date of the acquisition. 31 Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet our interest and principal payment obligations under our secured convertible promissory note and our other debt obligations, we may have to restructure or limit our operations. Our indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, but not limited to: · requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; · limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and · placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt obligations and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Shares eligible for future sale by our current or future stockholders may cause our stock price to decline. If our stockholders or holders of our other securities sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued in completed or future acquisitions or upon the exercise of outstanding convertible promissory notes, options and warrants, then the market price of our common stock could fall. As of March 19, 2009, the Investor has the right to convert the convertible promissory note into 3,487,344 shares of our common stock and holds warrants to purchase 1,046,204 shares of our common stock. Our convertible promissory note provides that upon the occurrence of various events of default, the Investor would be entitled to require us to prepay the note for cash, which could leave us with little or no working capital for operations or capital expenditures. The terms of our convertible promissory note issued to the Investor require us to prepay the note upon the occurrence of various events of default, such as the failure to pay any principal payments due and for the breach of any representations and warranties under the note or the SPA. The note also contains a cross-acceleration provision, which means that an acceleration of payment under other instruments would give the Investor the right to accelerate repayment under the note If we are unable to comply with the covenants under the note, the Investor may declare us in default and may declare all amounts due under the note, including any accrued interest and penalties. As of the date of this filing, we were in compliance with the covenants under the note. We expect to remain in compliance with the covenants of the note; however, no assurance is made that we will remain in compliance with all of the covenants under the note. In addition, if an event of default or a change in control occurs, we may be unable to prepay the entire amount due under the note in cash. Even if we were able to prepay the entire amount in cash, any such prepayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our obligations under the note, nor do we anticipate doing so. Our convertible promissory note is secured by a large portion of our assets. Our convertible promissory note issued to the Investor is secured by a security interest in and a lien on a large portion of our assets, including on the capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries. As a result of this security interest and lien, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the note, the Investor would be entitled to foreclose on those assets. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to service our day-to-day operational needs. Any foreclosure by the Investor of the note would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion or repayment of our convertible promissory note and exercise of warrants, or payment of interest in kind, will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 32 We may issue shares of our common stock (i) upon conversion of some or all of our secured convertible promissory note issued to the Investor, and (ii) upon exercise of warrants. In addition, we may issue additional convertible promissory notes as payment of interest in kind. Any of these issuances will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of this common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of our note and our warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. In addition the terms of our convertible promissory note issued to the Investor provide that, if on any date that occurs 31 trading days after the date of issuance, the market price for our common stock, as determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the SPA, exceeds 300% of the then-effective conversion price of the note, then the entire principal amount and all accrued but unpaid interest under the note will automatically convert into shares of our common stock at the then-effective conversion price. Such a mandatory conversion of the note will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. The ownership interests of our existing stockholders may be further diluted through adjustments to certain of our existing securities under the terms of their anti-dilution provisions. If Photo Therapeutics Group Limited earns all or any part of its $7 million earn-out and we elect to finance such earn-out through the issuance of a convertible promissory note to the Investor, we shall also have to issue a warrant to purchase a number of shares of our common stock equal to 30% of the shares of our common stock that the second note will covert into, and the conversion price of the second note and the exercise price of the warrant will equal the lesser of (i) 150% of the conversion price then in effect with respect to the first convertible note, and (ii) the market price of our common stock measured in accordance with the terms of the SPA. Thus, the second convertible promissory note could lead to proportionately greater dilution than the first note. Our recent acquisition of Photo Therapeutics, Inc. and Photo Therapeutics Limited may require us to pay additional amounts in the future. In connection with our acquisition of PTL we may be required to pay up to an additional $7 million to Photo Therapeutics Group Limited, subject to the achievement of certain financial performance thresholds. Such a payment would require us to issue an additional secured convertible promissory note and an additional warrant to the Investor or an affiliate of the Investor, which could implicate the dilution and other risks related to the issuance of the first secured convertible promissory note and warrant issued to the Investor as described above. Pursuant to the terms of the SPA, we are prohibited from taking certain corporate actions without the prior consent of the Investor. The SPA provides that, until such time as no secured convertible promissory notes are outstanding and the Investor no longer holds at least 66% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes and the warrants, we may not take certain corporate actions without the prior consent of the Investor. These actions include, among others: · consummating any transaction that would result in a change of control of us unless such transaction is for consideration that meets certain thresholds specified in the SPA; · acquiring another business or corporation or a substantial portion of the assets of any such entity; · selling any of our assets that are material, individually or in the aggregate, to our business; · paying dividends to our stockholders; and · amending or modifying any compensation arrangement with any of our executive officers or directors, including hiring or terminating the employment of our Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer. These restrictive covenants are in addition to the Investor’s right of first refusal with respect to future equity issuances and approval right with respect to future debt financings. If our management and Board of Directors desire to take any of such actions, there can be no assurance that the Investor will provide its consent as required, despite the fact that such actions may be in the best interests of us and our stockholders other than the Investor. Any failure of the Investor to provide its consent could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 