Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as discussed on page 1. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statements in this Report or elsewhere. Our business routinely encounters and addresses risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, entertain the possibility of future losses and cannot assure you that we will become or remain profitable. Historically, we have incurred significant losses and have had negative cash flows from our dermatological operations. To date, we have dedicated most of our financial resources to selling, general and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $124,564,000. - 14 - Our future revenues and success depend significantly upon acceptance and adoption of our excimer laser systems for the treatment principally of psoriasis. Our XTRAC system for the treatment of this condition generates revenues, but those revenues have been insufficient under our consignment model to generate consistent, positive cash flows from our operations in the domestic XTRAC business segment. Our future revenues and success depend on revenue growth from our revamped sales strategies in our dermatological business. Our ability to market our products and services successfully under our revamped strategies and the expected benefits to be obtained from our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as unforeseen costs and expenses, technological changes, economic downturns, competitive factors or other events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liquidity to allow us to continue to operate our business or prevent the possible impairment of our assets. We cannot assure you that we will market any products successfully, operate profitably in the future, or that we will not require significant additional financing in order to accomplish our business plan. Any failure to achieve and maintain profitability would continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital and could result in a decline in our stock price or cause us to cease operations. Recent adverse developments with respect to our industry and the global macro-economy generally have adversely affected our business and our liquidity, the effect of which has resulted in our need to obtain additional financing. Beginning in 2008, the national and global economic downturn has resulted in a decline in overall consumer spending, a decline in access to credit and increased liquidity risks, all of which have impacted, and could continue to impact our business, financial condition and results of operations for the foreseeable future. Given our significant operating losses, negative cash flows and financial position at July 31, 2009, we required significant additional funds in order to continue to fund our operations. In October 2009, we launched a private placement in which we received proceeds in that offering amounted to approximately $2.85 million. On March 19, 2010, we entered into a Term Loan and Security Agreement (the “Clutterbuck Agreement”) and a related secured term note with Clutterbuck Funds LLC (“Clutterbuck Funds”). Clutterbuck Funds LLC is a registered investment advisor based in Cleveland, Ohio. We received net proceeds of $2,373,000 in the transaction. The secured term note has a principal amount of $2.5 million (the “Term Note”), which accrues interest at a rate of 12% per annum. The Term Note requires us to make monthly payments of interest only. The principal matures in 18 months and may be prepaid without penalty at any time. The note is secured by XTRAC lasers that we have consigned to physician customers and that are not otherwise pledged to CIT Healthcare LLC and Life Sciences Capital LLC pursuant to our outstanding term notes with such lenders. In May 2010, we raised net proceeds of approximately $2.0 million through the issuance of 534,000 shares in an underwritten public offering headed by Ladenburg Thalmann. Finally, on March 28, 2011, Clutterbuck Funds agreed to extend the maturity date of its loan of to us, of which the principal of $2.5 million was to be paid at maturity. Previously, the loan matured on September 19, 2011; it will now mature on December 1, 2012. Starting in August 2011, we will begin monthly installments of principal. These proceeds and cash flows from operations are expected to ensure our liquidity through the first quarter of 2012. To maintain and expand our business, we may need additional financing and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We have historically financed our activities through working capital provided from operations, the private placement of equity and debt securities and from lines of credit. We believe that our cash balance and other existing financial resources, and revenues from sales, distribution, licensing and manufacturing relationships, should be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements through the first quarter of 2012. However, our operating plan or debt repayment obligations may change and we may need additional funds sooner than anticipated to meet our operational needs and repayment obligations or to answer our capital requirements for expansion, including in the event that: - 15 - • operating losses continue because anticipated demand for our skincare products, including our Photo Therapeutics, or PTL, products, does not meet our expectations under our new sales strategies; • we fail to maintain existing, or develop new, customers or sales affiliates and alternate channels for the marketing and distribution of our skincare and PTL products; • we need to maintain or accelerate favorable, but costlier, growth of our revenues; • changes in our research and development plans necessitate unexpected, large expenditures; • the investor that holds the Convertible Notes does not convert the notes, thereby obliging us to have funds to satisfy the notes upon maturity on February 27, 2014; • costs to defend existing and unknown future litigation exceed our current planned resources; or • Debt financing for increased capital expenditures cannot be obtained. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to: • execute our growth plan for our XTRAC system, Neova skincare products and Omnilux and Lumiere PTL products; • expand our manufacturing facilities, if necessary, based on increased demand for the XTRAC system or new skincare or PTL products which may be introduced; • meet our debt obligations, including the obligation to repay all amounts outstanding under our Convertible Notes at maturity on February 27, 2014; • take advantage of future opportunities, including synergistic, accretive acquisitions; • respond to customers, competitors or violators of our proprietary and contractual rights; or • remain in operation. We must secure the consent of the holder of the Convertible Notes to incur debt financing. This investor is not obligated to give consent and could prohibit us from issuing debt to raise capital. To raise additional equity financing, we must first offer our terms to this holder, called elsewhere the investor and, if this holder declines, or fails to accept, such terms, then we have 30 days in which to pursue subscriptions and another 30 days in which to consummate the subscriptions. Such delay may inhibit our ability to raise additional equity financing in a timely matter or at all. Our laser treatments of psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma, our skincare products and our PTL products and any of our future products or services may fail to gain market acceptance, which could adversely affect our competitive position. No independent studies with regard to the feasibility of our proposed business plan, including integration of the PTL products into our corporate operations or the reorganization of our sales strategies and sales force, have been conducted by third parties with respect to our present and future business prospects and capital requirements. We have generated limited commercial distribution for our XTRAC system and other products. It is still not established that the PTL devices targeted for the consumer market will be widely accepted in that market. We may be unsuccessful in continuing our existing, or developing new, strategic selling affiliates and alternate channels in order to maintain or expand the markets for the existing or future products of the skincare and PTL businesses. In addition, our infrastructure to enable such expansion, though stronger than in the past, is still limited. Even if adequate financing is available and our products are ready for market, we cannot assure you that our products and services will find sufficient acceptance in the marketplace under our new sales strategies. - 16 - We also face a risk that other companies in the market for dermatological products and services may be able to provide dermatologists a higher overall yield on investment and therefore compromise our ability to increase our base of users and ensure they engage in optimal usage of our products. If, for example, such other companies have products (such as Botox or topical creams for disease management) that require less time commitment from the dermatologist and yield an attractive return on a dermatologist’s time and investment, we may find that our efforts to increase our base of users is hindered. While we have engaged in clinical studies for our psoriasis treatment and, based on these studies, we have gained U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance, appropriate Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, reimbursement codes for treatment and suitable reimbursement rates, for those codes, from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, we may face other hurdles to market acceptance. For example, practitioners in significant numbers may wait to see longer-term studies; or it may become necessary to conduct studies corroborating the role of the XTRAC system as a first-line or second-line therapy for treating psoriasis; or patients simply may not elect to undergo psoriasis treatment using the XTRAC system. We have designed the XTRAC system so that a properly trained medical technician in a physician’s office may, under the physician’s supervision, safely and effectively administer treatments to a patient. In fact, the CMS lowered labor rates applied to the revenue value units applicable to the laser dermatological CPT codes are achieved through delegation to medical technicians. Nevertheless, whether a treatment may be delegated and, if so, to whom and to what extent, are matters that may vary state by state, as these matters are within the province of the state medical boards. In states that may be more restrictive in such delegation, a physician may decline to adopt the XTRAC system into his or her practice, deeming it to be fraught with too many constraints and finding other outlets for the physician’s time and staff time to be more remunerative. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in persuading such medical boards that a liberal standard for delegation is appropriate for the XTRAC system, based on its design for ease and safety of use. If we are not successful, we may find that even if a geographic region has wide insurance reimbursement, the region’s physicians may decline to adopt the XTRAC system into their practices. We therefore cannot assure you that the marketplace will be receptive to our excimer laser technology or skincare products over competing products, services and therapies or that a cure will not be found for the underlying diseases we are focused on treating. Failure of our products to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for our products are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively against the larger, well-established companies that dominate this market or emerging, and small, innovative companies that may seek to obtain or increase their share of the market. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and many of our competitors are much larger and have substantially more financial and human resources than we do. Many have long histories and strong reputations within the industry and a relatively small number of companies dominate these markets. We face direct competition from large pharmaceutical companies, including for example Biogen, Inc., Centocor, Inc., and Abbott Laboratories, which are engaged in the research, development and commercialization of treatments for psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, vitiligo and leukoderma. In some cases, those companies have already received FDA approval or commenced clinical trials for such treatments. Many of these companies have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, conducting pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, and marketing than we do. Competition in the wound care, skin health and hair care markets is intense. Our competitors include well-established pharmaceutical, cosmetic and healthcare companies such as Allergan, Inc., Obagi Medical Products, Inc., and Estee Lauder Inc. These competitors have substantially more financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more experience and capabilities in researching, developing and testing products in clinical trials, in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing, supply chain control, marketing and distribution than we do. - 17 - These companies enjoy significant competitive advantages over us, including: • broad product offerings, which address the needs of physicians and hospitals in a wide range of procedures; • greater experience in, and resources for, launching, marketing, distributing and selling products, including strong sales forces and established distribution networks; • existing relationships with physicians and hospitals; • more extensive intellectual property portfolios and resources for patent protection; • greater financial and other resources for product research and development; • greater experience in obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals for products and product enhancements; • established manufacturing operations and contract manufacturing relationships; • significantly greater name recognition and more recognizable trademarks; and • established relationships with healthcare providers and payors. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if we are unsuccessful in convincing physician and patient customers and consumers to use our products or if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer and more effective than any products that we may develop. Our success is dependent on intellectual property rights held by us and our business may be adversely affected by direct competition if we are unable to protect these rights both domestically and internationally. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain and defend our patents. However, we cannot guarantee that the patents covering certain of our technologies and processes will not be contested, found to be invalid or unenforceable or would not be circumventable. Moreover, as our patents expire, competitors may utilize the technology found in such patents to commercialize their own products. While we seek to offset the losses relating to important expiring patents by securing additional patents on commercially desirable improvements, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing such additional patents, or that such additional patents will adequately offset the effect of the expiring patents. Further, pending patent applications are not enforceable. We will rely on certain of our PTL patents to protect the home-use market for two of our PTL hand-held devices. If the patents prove unenforceable or circumventable, we may not attain growth and may lose market share from these PTL products. Trade secrets and other proprietary information which are not protected by patents are also critical to our business. We attempt to protect our trade secrets by, among other steps, entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, employees and consultants. However, such other steps may be ineffective and these agreements can be breached and, if they are and even if we are able to prove the breach or that our technology has been misappropriated under applicable state law, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. In addition, costly and time-consuming litigation may be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights; even should we prevail in such litigation, the party over which we prevail may have insufficient resources available to satisfy a judgment. Furthermore, our skincare business seeks to establish customer loyalty, in part, by means of our use of trademarks. It can be difficult and costly to defend trademarks from encroachment, especially on the Internet, or misappropriation overseas. Third parties may also challenge the validity of our trademarks. In either eventuality, our customers may become confused and direct their purchases to competitors. Third parties may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information that allow them to develop technologies and products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own. Without the protection afforded by our patent, trade secret and - 18 - proprietary information rights, we may face direct competition from others commercializing their products using our technology, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our prospects. From an international perspective, intellectual property law outside of the U.S. is uncertain to us. The laws of some countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the U.S. The intellectual property rights we enjoy in one country or jurisdiction may be rejected in other countries or jurisdictions, or, if recognized there, the rights may be significantly diluted. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign intellectual property rights, or those of our competitors, which could result in substantial cost and divert our resources, efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. In addition, we may be subject in the ordinary course of our business to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property or derivative rights of others. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims, both domestically and internationally, could be time-consuming and expensive and, if we are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. If we are unable to defend our intellectual property rights internationally, we may face increased competition outside the U.S., which could materially and adversely affect our future business, prospects, operating results and financial results and financial condition. Our success depends on third-party reimbursement of patients’ costs for our XTRAC system, which could result in potentially reduced prices or reduced demand. Our ability to market the XTRAC system and other treatment products successfully will depend in large part on the extent to which various third parties are willing to reimburse patients or providers for the costs of medical procedures utilizing such products. These third parties include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. Third-party payors are systematically challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. They may deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payor, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Further, although third parties may approve reimbursement, such approvals may be under terms and conditions that discourage use of the XTRAC system. Accordingly, if less costly drugs or other treatments are available, third-party payors may not authorize or may limit reimbursement for the use of our products, even if our products are safer or more effective than the alternatives. Although we have received reimbursement approvals from an increasing number of private healthcare plans, we cannot give assurance that private plans will continue to adopt or maintain favorable reimbursement policies or to accept the XTRAC system in its clinical role as a second-line therapy in the treatment of psoriasis. Additionally, third-party payors may require further clinical studies or changes to our pricing structure and revenue model before authorizing reimbursement. As of December 31, 2010, we estimate, based on published coverage policies and on payment practices of private and Medicare insurance plans, that more than 90% of the insured population in the U.S. is covered by insurance coverage or payment policies that reimburse physicians for using the XTRAC system for treatment of psoriasis. Based on these reports and estimates, we are continuing the implementation of a roll-out strategy under revised user models for the XTRAC system in the U.S. in selected areas of the country where reimbursement is widely available. The success of the roll-out depends on increasing physician and patient awareness and demand for the treatment. We can give no assurance that health insurers will not adversely modify their reimbursement policies for the use of the XTRAC system in the future. We intend to seek coverage and reimbursement for the use of the XTRAC system to treat other inflammatory skin disorders after additional clinical studies are initiated. There can be no assurances that we will be in a position to continue to expand coverage for vitiligo or to seek reimbursement for the use of the XTRAC system to treat atopic dermatitis or leukoderma, or, if we do, that any health insurers will agree to any reimbursement policies. Any failure in our customer education efforts could significantly reduce product marketing. It is important to the success of our marketing efforts to educate physicians and technicians how to properly use the XTRAC system. We rely on physicians to spend their time and money to attend our pre-sale educational sessions. If physicians and technicians use the XTRAC system improperly, they may have unsatisfactory patient - 19 - outcomes or cause patient injury, which may give rise to negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, revenues and profitability. If revenue from a significant customer declines, we may have difficulty replacing the lost revenue, which would negatively affect our results and operations. Excluding niche marketing efforts, the Skin Care business segment targets its sales in the U.S. market to physicians, who then mark the products up for sale to their patients. No single physician practice in itself is generally responsible for a significant proportion of our sales. We find as well that a few physicians re-sell our products not just to their own patients, but also at discounted prices on the internet. These practices undercut the sales of other physicians and violate our internet sales policy, but this policy can be difficult to enforce. In our Physician International business segment (as well as in our Surgical Products business segment), we depend for a material portion of our sales in the international arena on several key sub-distributors, and especially on GlobalMed, which is our master distributor over most of the international arena for devices. If we lose GlobalMed or one of these sub-distributors, our sales of phototherapy and surgical lasers are likely to suffer in the short term, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. Our PTL hand-held products can be sold over the counter, to the consumer market through mass retailers Such retailers may not give us long-term purchase commitments. Loss of such a retailer could adversely impact revenues from the consumer market. Additionally, OEM arrangements or license arrangements will carry reduced profits. The international nature of our business exposes us to certain business risks that could limit the effectiveness of our growth strategy and cause our results of operations to suffer. Continued expansion into international markets is an element of our growth strategy. Introducing and marketing our services internationally, developing direct and indirect international sales and support channels and managing foreign personnel and operations will require significant management attention and financial resources. We face a number of risks associated with expanding our business internationally that could negatively impact our results of operations, including: • management, communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; • compliance with foreign laws, including laws regarding importation and registration of products; • compliance with foreign regulatory requirements and the ability of GlobalMed to establish additional regulatory clearances necessary to expand distribution of our products in countries outside of the United States; • competition from companies with international operations, including large international competitors and entrenched local companies; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights in international jurisdictions; • political and economic instability in some international markets; • sufficiency of qualified labor pools in various international markets; • currency fluctuations and exchange rates; and • potentially adverse tax consequences or an inability to realize tax benefits. We may not succeed in our efforts to expand our international presence as a result of the factors described above or other factors that may have an adverse impact on our overall financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have a relationship with GlobalMed, whereby it provides us with certain non-U.S. regulatory support. To the extent that we discontinue our relationship with GlobalMed, or if GlobalMed is otherwise unable to provide us with the resources and assistance that we need, we may have a difficult time expanding into international markets in an effective manner. - 20 - If we fail to integrate, build and manage our sales and marketing force or to market and distribute our products effectively, we may experience diminished revenues and profits. There are significant risks involved in integrating, building and managing our sales and marketing force and marketing our products, including our ability: • to hire, as needed, a sufficient number of qualified sales and marketing personnel with the aptitude, skills and understanding to market our XTRAC system, our skincare products, our Omnilux products and our surgical products effectively; • to adequately train our sales and marketing force in the use and benefits of all our products and services, thereby making them more effective promoters; • to manage our sales and marketing force and our ancillary channels (e.g., telesales) such that variable and semi-fixed expenses grow at a lesser rate than our revenues; • to set the prices and other terms and conditions for treatments using the XTRAC system in a complex legal environment so that they will be accepted as attractive skin health and appropriate alternatives to conventional modalities and treatments; and • to cope with employee turnover among the sales force in the skin health business, in which there is substantial competition for talented sales representatives. To increase acceptance and utilization of our XTRAC system, we may have to expand our sales and marketing programs in the U.S. While we may be able to draw on currently available personnel within our organization to meet this need, we also expect that we will have to increase the number of representatives devoted to the sales and marketing programs and to broaden, through such representatives, the talents we have at our disposal. In some cases, we may look outside our organization for assistance in marketing our products. In similar fashion, we cannot predict how successful we may be in marketing our skincare and Omnilux products in the U.S., nor can we predict the success of any new skincare or Omnilux products that we may introduce. Despite an increased focus on developing alternate channels for many of our skincare and Omnilux products, we may find that channels that are attractive to us are unavailable because they already carry competitive products. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in marketing and selling our skin health and hair care products or our Omnilux products. We may be unsuccessful in accessing the home-use consumer market with our PTL products or with our skincare products. Distribution through the consumer market will be principally through mass-retail chains in the near term, but will also include e-commerce and electronic media. While we expect the volumes will be higher, the margins may be lower. It may also prove difficult to obtain long-term commitments from the retailers. The mass retailer we collaborated with for the New-U hand-held device proved not equal to the task, and our licensee for the Clear-U technology has opted to discontinue its development activity under the license. If we are unable to secure distribution partners or obtain favorable pricing or long-term commitments, our efforts in the home-use consumer market may be unsuccessful. We may encounter difficulties manufacturing our products in commercial quantities, which could adversely impact the rate at which we grow. We may encounter difficulties manufacturing our products because we have limited experience manufacturing our products in significant commercial quantities and because we will, in order to increase our manufacturing output significantly, have to attract and retain qualified employees for assembly and testing operations. - 21 - Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products, including our PTL products, are currently provided to us by third-party suppliers. While alternative suppliers exist and could be identified, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. A disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. We face the risk that there will be supply chain problems if the volumes do not match to the margins, as our consumer market products are intended to be high-volume, lower-margined products. Although we believe that our current manufacturing facilities are adequate to support our commercial manufacturing activities for the foreseeable future, we may be required to expand or restructure our manufacturing facilities to increase capacity substantially. If we are unable to provide customers with high-quality products in a timely manner, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance for our XTRAC system or achieve market acceptance and growth for our skincare products. Our inability to manufacture or commercialize our devices successfully could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. We may have difficulty managing our growth. If private carriers continue to approve favorable reimbursement policies for psoriasis and our marketing programs are successful in increasing utilization of the XTRAC system, we expect to experience growth in the number of our employees and customers, and the scope of our operations. Such growth may place a strain on our management and operations. Our ability to manage this growth will depend upon, among other factors, our ability to broaden our management team; our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees; and the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and different products and to respond to increasing compliance requirements. Our future success is heavily dependent upon achieving such growth and acceptance of our products. If we cannot manage this growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and we may not become profitable. We are reliant on a limited number of suppliers for production of key products. Production of our XTRAC system requires specific component parts obtained from our suppliers. Production of our surgical laser systems requires some component parts that may become harder to procure as the design of a system ages. Similarly, our skincare products may require compounds that can be efficiently produced only by a limited number of suppliers. Our PTL business segment has one primary supplier of LEDs and relies on contract manufacturers. While we believe that we could find alternate suppliers, in the event that our suppliers fail to meet our needs, a change in suppliers or any significant delay in our ability to have access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our delivery schedules, business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to respond to rapid changes in technology and its applications in the medical devices industry or the development of a cure for skin conditions treated by our products could make our treatment system obsolete. The medical device industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. To be successful, we must respond to new developments in technology, new applications of existing technology and new treatment methods. We may also encounter greater pressure for innovation in order to satisfy a demand for novelty in the consumer market. Our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if we fail to be responsive on a timely and effective basis to competitors’ new devices, applications, treatments or price strategies. For example, the development of a cure for psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis or leukoderma would eliminate the need for our XTRAC system for these diseases and would require us to focus on other uses of our technology, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. - 22 - As we develop new products or improve our existing products, we may accelerate the economic obsolescence of the existing, unimproved products and their components. The obsolete products and related components may have little to no resale value, leading to an increase in the reserves we have against our inventory. Likewise, there is a risk that the new products or improved existing products may not achieve market acceptance and therefore may also lead to an increase in the reserves against our inventory. Our products may be found defective or physicians and technicians may misuse our products and damages imposed on us may exceed our insurance coverage, or we may be subject to claims that are not covered by insurance. Product returns and the potential need to remedy defects or provide replacement products or parts for items shipped in volume could result in substantial costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and procedures may also expose us to product liability claims. Certain indications for use for our PTL light-based devices, though approved outside the U.S., are not approved in the U.S. If a physician elects to apply an off-label use and the use leads to injury, we may be involved in costly litigation. In addition, the fact that we train technicians whom we do not supervise in the use of our XTRAC system during patient treatment may expose us to third-party claims if those doing the training are accused of providing inadequate training. We presently maintain liability insurance with coverage limits of at least $5,000,000 per occurrence. However, continuing insurance coverage may not be available at an acceptable cost, if at all. We thus may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy a liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to its reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management and technical team. In particular, our success depends in part upon the continued service and performance of our named executive officers: • Dennis M. McGrath, President and Chief Executive Officer; • Michael R. Stewart, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and • Christina L. Allgeier, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We have fixed-term employment agreements with Mr. McGrath and Mr. Stewart and an at-will employment agreement with Ms. Allgeier; however, there are no assurances that the services of these individuals will be available to us for any specified period of time. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could adversely affect our ability to develop and introduce our new products. The competition for qualified personnel in the laser and skincare industries is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. In addition, we do not have key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows and operating flexibility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet our interest and principal payment obligations under the Convertible Notes and our other debt obligations (including the Term Note), we may have to restructure or limit our operations. The Convertible Notes mature on February 27, 2014. Interest is payable on a bi-annual basis either in cash or in kind through the issuance of additional notes with the same terms. We have paid all interest in kind to date. Our Convertible Notes and other indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, but not limited to: - 23 - • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt obligations and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Our Convertible Notes provide that upon the occurrence of various events of default, one of our investors would be entitled to require us to prepay the Convertible Notes for cash, which could leave us with little or no working capital for operations or capital expenditures. The terms of our Convertible Notes require us to prepay the Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of various events of default, such as the failure to pay any principal payments due and for the breach of any representations and warranties under the Convertible Notes, the Securities Purchase Agreement, or SPA, or the related transaction documents with the investor. The Convertible Notes also contain a cross-acceleration provision, which means that an acceleration of payment under other instruments (including the Term Note) would give the investor the right to accelerate repayment under the Convertible Notes. If we are unable to comply with the covenants under the Convertible Notes, the investor may declare us in default and may declare all amounts due under the notes, including any accrued interest and penalties. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Convertible Notes and our other indebtedness. We expect to remain in compliance with the covenants of the Convertible Notes and our other indebtedness. We can make no assurances that we will remain in compliance with all of the covenants under the Convertible Notes and our other indebtedness. As a result of the security interest and lien granted in connection with the Convertible Notes and the Term Note, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the Convertible Notes, the Term Note or our other indebtedness, the investor or Clutterbuck Funds, as the case may be, would be entitled to foreclose on the assets subject to those encumbrances. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to service our day-to-day operational needs. Any foreclosure by a lender on the collateral pledged to it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, if an event of default occurs, we may be unable to prepay the entire amount due under the Convertible Notes in cash as required by their terms. Even if we are able to prepay the entire amount in cash, any such prepayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our obligations under the Convertible Notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. The terms of the SPA and the Clutterbuck Agreement prohibit us from taking certain actions without their prior consent. Pursuant to the terms of the SPA and the Clutterbuck Agreement, we are prohibited from taking certain corporate actions without the prior consent of the lenders there under. - 24 - The SPA provides that, until such time as no Convertible Notes are outstanding and the investor no longer holds at least 66% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and the warrants, we may not take certain corporate actions without the prior consent of the investor. These actions include, among others: • consummating any transaction that would result in a change of control of us unless such transaction is for consideration that meets certain thresholds specified in the SPA; • acquiring another business or corporation or a substantial portion of the assets of any such entity; • selling any of our assets that are material, individually or in the aggregate, to our business; and • paying dividends to our stockholders. These restrictive covenants are in addition to the investor’s right of first refusal and preemptive right with respect to future equity issuances and approval right with respect to future debt financings. The Clutterbuck Agreement provides Clutterbuck Funds with some of the same approval rights that the investor has under the SPA. If our management and Board of Directors desire to take any of such actions, there can be no assurance that the investor or Clutterbuck Funds will provide its consent as required, despite the fact that such actions may be in the best interests of us and our other stockholders. Any failure of the investor or Clutterbuck Funds, as the case may be, to provide its consent could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are affected by the market’s currency conditions. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in U.S. dollars. Our PTL business, however, is exposed on a minimal basis to currency fluctuations. The majority of sales invoicing for our PTL business is done in either Euros or U.S. dollars, while product costs and the overhead of the offices in the United Kingdom are denominated in Pounds Sterling. Our U.S. operations, with U.S. dollar operating costs, serve to reduce the exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Pound Sterling or the Euro. To the extent that we adjust our invoicing practices for our PTL business, or if the remainder of our business (or any portion thereof) ceases to be conducted primarily in U.S. dollars, our exposure to the market’s currency conditions could present a greater risk to us. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Healthcare policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Changes in the healthcare industry in the U.S. and elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products as well as the way in which we conduct our business. On March 23, 2010, health reform legislation was approved by Congress and has been signed into law, but the legislation has been subject to judicial challenge and political opposition. The reform legislation provides that most individuals must have health insurance, will establish new regulations on health plans, and create insurance pooling mechanisms and other expanded public health care measures. We anticipate that out of the reform legislation will come a reduction in Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other providers and a form of sales or excise tax on the medical device manufacturing sector. - 25 - Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, if the excise taxes contained in the House or Senate health reform bills are enacted into law, our operating expenses resulting from such an excise tax and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If the effectiveness and safety of our products are not supported by long-term data, our revenues could decline. Our products may not be accepted in the market if we do not produce clinical data supported by the independent efforts of clinicians. We received clearance from the FDA for the use of the XTRAC system to treat psoriasis based upon our study of a limited number of patients. Safety and efficacy data presented to the FDA for the XTRAC system was based on studies on these patients. For the treatment of vitiligo, atopic dermatitis, and leukoderma, we have received clearance from the FDA for the use of the XTRAC system based primarily on a showing of substantial equivalence to other previously cleared predicate devices. However, we may discover that physicians will expect clinical data on such treatments with the XTRAC system. We also may find that data from longer-term psoriasis patient follow-up studies may be inconsistent with those indicated by our relatively short-term data. If longer-term patient studies or clinical experience indicate that treatment with the XTRAC system does not provide patients with sustained benefits or that treatment with our product is less effective or less safe than our current data suggests, our revenues could decline. We can give no assurance that we will find that our data is substantiated in studies involving more patients. In such a case, we may never achieve significant revenues or profitability. Certain indications for use for the PTL light-based products are permitted in Europe and elsewhere in the world, but are not approved or cleared for marketing in the U.S. Such approvals/clearances in the U.S. could be costly and take significant time to obtain. If we are ultimately not approved or cleared to market the devices for these additional indications for use in the U.S., it is uncertain whether the products will be successful in the U.S. If we are found to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses or engaging in other noncompliant activities, we may be subject to recalls, fines, penalties, injunctions, prosecution, or other adverse actions, resulting in damage to our reputation and business. Our labeling, advertising, promotional materials, and user training materials must comply with the FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as “off-label” use. If the FDA determines that our labeling, advertising, promotional materials, or user training materials include the promotion of an off-label use for the device, the agency could take the position that these materials have misbranded our devices and request that we modify our labeling, advertising, or user training or promotional materials and/or subject us to regulatory or legal enforcement actions, including the issuance of an Untitled Letter or a Warning Letter, injunction, seizure, recall, civil penalties, criminal penalties, or other adverse actions. It is also possible that other federal, state, or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our labeling, advertising, promotional, or user training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines, penalties, or other adverse actions under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Although we intend to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients, and, in turn, the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management’s attention and result in substantial damage awards against us. - 26 - We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. While we do not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, many healthcare laws and regulations apply to our business. For example, we could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The healthcare laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase order or recommendation of, any item or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services not provided as claimed and which may apply to entities like us to the extent that our interactions with customers may affect their billing or coding practices; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which established new federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services, as well as leading to regulations imposing certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. Recently, the medical device industry has been under heightened scrutiny as the subject of government investigations and enforcement actions involving manufacturers who allegedly offered unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure their business, including arrangements with physician consultants. If our operations or arrangements are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, exclusions, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of these laws are broad and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on our business. Our failure to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances or approvals, or equivalents thereof in relevant foreign markets, could hurt our ability to distribute and market our products. Our laser products are considered medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in foreign countries where we intend to do business. In addition, certain of our skincare products and product candidates may fall under the regulatory purview of various centers at the FDA and in other countries by similar health and regulatory authorities. As we seek to expand sales of our skincare products outside the U.S., we may encounter requirements that we did not anticipate or that we may not be able to satisfy. - 27 - Each medical device that we wish to market in the U.S. must first receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA unless an exemption applies. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process may take from three to twelve months, or longer, and may or may not require human clinical data. The premarket approval process is much more costly and lengthy. It may take from eleven months to three years, or even longer, and will likely require significant supporting human clinical data. Delays in obtaining regulatory clearance or approval could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearances for our XTRAC system for use in treating psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma, and 510(k) clearances for our Omnilux devices as well as extensive 510(k) clearances for our surgical products, our clearances may be subject to revocation if post-marketing data demonstrates safety issues or lack of effectiveness. Similar clearance processes may apply in foreign countries. Further, more stringent regulatory requirements or safety and quality standards may be issued in the future with an adverse effect on our business. Although cosmetic products are not subject to any FDA premarket approval or clearance process, they must, nonetheless, comply with the FDA’s formulation and labeling requirements or such products may be considered adulterated or misbranded by the agency which could subject us to potential regulatory enforcement actions. Similar, or more stringent, requirements may apply in foreign jurisdictions as well. We may also find that if our cosmetic products compete with a third-party’s drug product, competitive and regulatory pressure may be applied against the cosmetic products. Certain indications for use for our PTL light-based products are permitted in Europe and elsewhere in the world, but are not cleared or approved for marketing in the U.S. Such clearances or approvals could be costly and take significant time to obtain. If we are not approved or cleared to market the indications for use in the U.S., it is uncertain whether the products will be successful in the U.S. Our market acceptance in international markets requires regulatory approvals from foreign governments and may depend on third party reimbursement of participants’ cost. We have introduced our XTRAC system into markets in more than 30 countries in Europe, the Middle East, the Far East Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia, South Africa, and parts of Central and South America. We intend to expand the number of countries in these markets where we distribute our products through the network of distributors which PTL and GlobalMed have built. We cannot be certain that our distributors will be successful in marketing XTRAC systems in these or other countries or that our distributors will purchase XTRAC systems beyond their current contractual obligations or in accordance with our expectations. We are regularly audited on the compliance of our quality systems with applicable requirements, which can be extensive and complex and subject to change due to evolving interpretations and changing requirements. Adverse audit findings could negatively affect our ability to market our products. Even if we obtain and maintain the necessary foreign regulatory registrations or approvals, market acceptance of our products in international markets may be dependent, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within applicable healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may seek international reimbursement approvals for our products, but we cannot assure you that any such approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to receive international reimbursement approvals in any given market could have a material adverse effect on the acceptance or growth of our products in that market or others. If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation or any applicable state equivalent, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and our potential product sales and operating results could suffer. We and some of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are required to comply with some or all of the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, that delineates the design controls, document controls, purchasing controls, identification and traceability, production and process controls, acceptance activities, nonconforming product requirements, corrective and preventive action requirements, labeling and packaging controls, handling, storage, distribution, and installation requirements, records requirements, servicing requirements, and statistical techniques potentially applicable to the production of our medical devices. We and our manufacturers and suppliers - 28 - are also subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process if we market our products overseas. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic and announced or unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. Our facilities have been inspected by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and we anticipate that we and certain of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers will be subject to additional future inspections. If our facilities or those of our manufacturers or suppliers are found to be in significant non-compliance or fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to adverse QSR inspectional findings, FDA could take enforcement actions against us and/or our products, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable FDA regulations, current regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation. We are also subject to periodic inspections by the FDA, other governmental regulatory agencies, as well as certain third-party regulatory groups. Future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies made during the course of these inspections may vary from current interpretations and may adversely affect our business and prospects. The FDA’s and foreign regulatory agencies’ statutes, regulations, or policies may change, and additional government regulation or statutes may be enacted, which could increase post-approval regulatory requirements, or delay, suspend, or prevent marketing of any cleared/approved products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Nevada law and our charter documents, as well as the SPA, contain provisions that could delay or prevent actual and potential changes in control, even if they would benefit stockholders. As of December 30, 2010, PhotoMedex became a corporation chartered in the State of Nevada. We are subject to provisions of the Nevada corporate statutes which prohibit a business combination between a corporation and an interested stockholder, which is generally a stockholder holding 10% or more of the Company’s stock. Pursuant to the SPA, the holder of our Convertible Notes must consent to any change of control transaction, subject to certain exceptions. These provisions could delay or prevent actual and potential changes in control, even if they would benefit our stockholders. Potential fluctuations in our operating results could lead to fluctuations in the market price for our common stock. Our results of operations are expected to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon numerous factors, including: • the present macro-economic downturn in the global economy and financial industry and governmental monetary and fiscal programs to stimulate better economic conditions; • healthcare reform and reimbursement policies; • demand for our products; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • increases in our manufacturing costs; • the number, timing and significance of product enhancements and new product announcements by ourselves and our competitors; • the termination or expiration of significant royalty-generating licensing contracts to which we are party; • the expiration of certain of our patents; - 29 - • our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis considering, among other things, delays associated with the FDA and other regulatory approval processes and the timing and results of future clinical trials; and • product quality problems, personnel changes and changes in our business strategy. Variations in the above operating factors could lead to significant fluctuations in the market price of our stock. Our quarter-to-quarter operating results could also be affected by the timing and usage of individual laser units in the treatment of patients, since our revenue model for the XTRAC system is generally based on a payment-per-usage plan. Our stock price has been and continues to be volatile. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate due to various factors. These factors include, among others: • conversion of the Convertible Notes or outstanding stock options or warrants; • announcements by us or our competitors of new contracts, products, or technological innovations; • changes in government regulations; • fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; and • general market and economic conditions. In the event the Convertible Notes were to be converted to common stock, such common stock would represent 1,272,009 shares, or 29.30%, of our outstanding common stock, as of March 30, 2011. Such conversion could impact the price of our common stock by virtue of the overall dilution to our stockholders. Currently, $3,072,745 of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes has a conversion price of $11.25850 per share of common stock and $18,374,845 of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes has a conversion price of $18.39172 per share of common stock. In addition, the stock markets have, in recent years, experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. Market fluctuations, as well as economic conditions, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage for our common stock or may issue negative reports and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts currently do not provide research coverage of our common stock. The lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract securities analysts that will cover our common stock. If one or more of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Shares eligible for future sale by our current or future stockholders may cause our stock price to decline. If our stockholders or holders of our other securities sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued in completed acquisitions or upon the exercise of outstanding Convertible Notes, options and warrants, then the market price of our common stock could fall. As of March 30, 2011, the holder of the Convertible Notes had the right to convert the Convertible Notes into 1,272,009 shares of our common stock and holds a warrant to purchase 293,610 shares of our common stock. - 30 - Issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our Convertible Notes and exercise of warrants, or payment of interest in kind, will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 30, 2011, we had outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 65,527 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 632,973 shares of common stock and Convertible Notes convertible into 1,272,009 shares of common stock. In addition, we also have 280,996 and 29,913 shares of common stock authorized for issuance and not subject to reserve under our 2005 Equity Plan and our 2000 Non-Employee Director Plan, respectively. The exercise of the stock options, warrants and Convertible Notes and the sales of stock issuable pursuant to them would further reduce a stockholder’s percentage voting and ownership interest. Further, the stock options, warrants and Convertible Notes are likely to be exercised when our common stock is trading at a price that is higher than the exercise price of these options and warrants and we would be able to obtain a higher price for our common stock than we would receive under such options and warrants. The exercise, or potential exercise, of these options, warrants and Convertible Notes could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the terms on which we could obtain additional financing. In addition, we may issue additional convertible promissory notes as payment of interest in kind. Any of these issuances will further dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of this common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of our note and our warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. The terms of the Convertible Notes issued to one of our investors provides that, if on any date that is at least 31 trading days after the date of issuance, the market price for our common stock, as determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the SPA, exceeds 300% of the then-effective conversion price of the Convertible Notes, then the entire principal amount and all accrued but unpaid interest under the Convertible Notes will automatically convert into shares of our common stock at the then-effective conversion price. Such a mandatory conversion of the Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. The ownership interests of our existing stockholders may be further diluted through adjustments to the Convertible Notes and certain outstanding warrants under the terms of their anti-dilution provision. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, contractual arrangements, any limitations on payments of dividends present in any of our future debt agreements and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our future capital needs could result in dilution of your investment. Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would likely dilute the ownership interests of our current investors and may dilute the net tangible book value per share of our common stock. Investors in subsequent offerings may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current stockholders which may adversely impact our current stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. - 31 - 