Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Business — The raw materials and labor costs we incur are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability.” We intend to recover some of the higher costs through price increases. Based on experience, we believe that adequate quantities of these materials will be available in adequate supplies in the foreseeable future. In addition, a significant portion of the products we sell are sourced from China and other Far Eastern countries and are paid for in U.S. dollars. Thus, movements of their local currency to the U.S. dollar have the same impacts as raw material price changes. Supply Our products are either manufactured or sourced to ensure that we supply our customers with appropriate customer service, quality products, innovative solutions and attractive pricing. We have built a consumer-focused business unit model with a flexible supply chain to ensure that these factors are appropriately balanced. Using a combination of manufacturing and third-party sourcing also enables us to reduce our costs and effectively manage our production assets by lowering our capital investment and working capital requirements. We tend to manufacture those products that would incur a relatively high freight expense or have high service needs and typically source those products that have a high proportion of direct labor cost. Low cost sourcing mainly comes from China, but we also source from other Asian countries and Eastern Europe. Where supply chain flexibility is of greater importance, we source from our own factories located in 7 Table of Contents intermediate cost regions, for example, the Czech Republic for Europe. Where freight costs or service issues are significant, we source from factories located in our domestic markets. Seasonality Our business, as it concerns both historical sales and profit, has experienced increased sales volume in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. Two principal factors have contributed to this seasonality: the office products industry, its customers and ACCO Brands specifically are major suppliers of products related to the “back-to-school” season, which occurs principally during the months of June, July, August and September for our North American business; and our offering includes several products which lend themselves to calendar year-end purchase timing, including Day-Timer planners, paper organization and storage products (including bindery) and Kensington computer accessories, which increase with traditionally strong fourth quarter sales of personal computers. Intellectual Property We have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to our business. The loss of any individual patent or license, however, would not be material to us taken as a whole. Many of these trademarks are only important in particular geographic markets or regions. Our principal trademarks are: Swingline, GBC, Quartet, Day-Timer, Kensington, Rexel, Wilson Jones, Marbig, NOBO, Apollo, Microsaver® and Ibico. Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling, disposal and clean-up of waste materials and otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. It is not possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding environmental matters, particularly remediation and other compliance efforts that we may undertake in the future. In the opinion of our management, compliance with the present environmental protection laws, before taking into account estimated recoveries from third parties, will not have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. Employees As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 6,846 full-time and part-time employees. There have been no strikes or material labor disputes at any of our facilities during the past five years. We consider our employee relations to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained or incorporated by reference herein that relate to our beliefs or expectations as to future events are not statements of historical fact and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of invoking these safe harbor provisions. These forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “plan” or similar expressions. Our ability to predict the results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Because actual results may differ from those predicted by such forward-looking statements, you should not rely on such forward-looking statements when deciding whether to buy, sell or hold our securities. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. The raw materials and labor costs we incur are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. The primary materials used in the manufacturing of many of our products are resin, plastics, polyester and polypropylene substrates, paper, steel, wood, aluminum, melamine and cork. In general, our gross profit may be affected from time to time by fluctuations in the prices of these materials because our customers require advance notice and negotiation to pass through raw material price increases, giving rise to a delay before cost increases can be passed to our customers. We attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in these costs through a variety of measures, including periodic purchases, future delivery contracts and longer term price contracts together with holding our own inventory; however, these measures may not always be effective. Inflationary and other increases in costs of materials and labor have occurred in the past and may recur, and raw materials may not continue to be available in adequate supply in the future. Shortages in the supply of any of the raw materials we use in our products could result in price increases that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to risks related to our dependence on the strength of economies in various parts of the world. Our business depends on the strength of the economies in various parts of the world, primarily in North America, Europe and Australia and to a lesser extent Central and South America and Asia. These economies are affected primarily by factors such as employment levels and consumer demand, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters. In recent years, the office products industry in the United States and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition and consolidation among our customers. Because such competition can cause our customers to struggle or fail, we must continuously monitor and adapt to changes in the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of our customers. Our business is dependent on a limited number of customers, and a substantial reduction in sales to these customers could significantly impact our operating results. The office products industry is concentrated in a small number of major customers, principally office products superstores (which combine contract stationers, retail and mail order), office products distributors and mass merchandisers. This concentration increases pricing pressures to which we are subject and leads to pressures on our margins and profits. Additionally, consolidation among customers also exposes us to increased concentration of customer credit risk. A relatively limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our total net sales. Our top ten customers accounted for 47% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Sales to Office Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries during the same period amounted to approximately 12%. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business from one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not compete successfully in the competitive office products industry, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets. We believe that the principal points of competition in these markets are product innovation, quality, price, merchandising, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness and completeness of delivery, conformity to customer specifications and post-sale support. Competitive conditions may require us to match or better competitors’ prices to retain business or market share. We believe that our competitive position will depend on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing and sourcing, quality standards, marketing and 9 Table of Contents customer service and support. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various market categories in which we compete. We may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary to anticipate those changing needs and we may not anticipate, identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise be successful in maintaining our competitive position. There are no significant barriers to entry into the markets for most of our products and services. We also face increasing competition from our own customers’ private label and direct sourcing initiatives. Our business is subject to risks associated with seasonality, which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, as it concerns both historical sales and profit, has experienced higher sales volume in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. Two principal factors have contributed to this seasonality: the office products industry’s customers and our product line. We are major suppliers of products related to the “back-to-school” season, which occurs principally during the months of June, July, August and September for our North American business; and our product line includes several products which lend themselves to calendar year-end purchase timing. If either of these typical seasonal increases in sales of certain portions of our product line does not materialize, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with our international operations could harm our business. Approximately 47% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 were from international sales. Our international operations may be significantly affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where our products are manufactured or sold. Additionally, while the recent relative weakness of the U.S. dollar to other currencies has been advantageous for our businesses’ sales as the results of non-U.S. operations have increased when reported in U.S. dollars, we cannot predict the rate at which the U.S. dollar will trade against other currencies in the future. If the trend of the U.S. dollar were to strengthen, making the dollar significantly more valuable relative to other currencies in the global market, such an increase could harm our ability to compete, our financial condition and our results of operations. More specifically, a significant portion of the products we sell are sourced from China and other Far Eastern countries and are paid for in U.S. dollars. Thus, movements of their local currency to the U.S. dollar have the same impacts as raw material price changes in addition to the currency translation impact noted above. Risks associated with outsourcing the production of certain of our products could harm our business. Historically, we have outsourced certain manufacturing functions to third party service providers in China and other countries. Outsourcing generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the manufacturing process possibly leading to production delays or interruptions, inferior product quality control and misappropriation of trade secrets. In addition, performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems which could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs or in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. Furthermore, the need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity could result in unforeseen operational problems and additional costs. Substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. Moreover, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 10 Table of Contents We depend on certain manufacturing sources whose inability to perform their obligations could harm our business. We rely on GMP Co. Ltd., in which we hold a minority equity interest of less than 20%, as our sole supplier of many of the laminating machines we distribute. GMP may not be able to continue to perform any or all of its obligations to us. GMP’s equipment manufacturing facility is located in the Republic of Korea, and its ability to supply us with laminating machines may be affected by Korean and other regional or worldwide economic, political or governmental conditions. Additionally, GMP has a highly leveraged capital structure and its ability to continue to obtain financing is required to ensure the orderly continuation of its operations. If GMP became incapable of supplying us with adequate equipment, and if we could not locate a suitable alternative supplier, in a timely manner or at all, and negotiate favorable terms with such supplier, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business. We have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to our business. The loss of any individual patent or license may not be material to us taken as a whole, but the loss of a number of patents or licenses that represented principal portions of our business, or expenses related to defending or maintaining the patents or licenses, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the development, manufacture and sale of our products, and key employees may not remain with us in the future. If we do not retain these key employees, we may experience substantial disruption in our businesses. The loss of key management personnel or other key employees or our potential inability to attract such personnel may adversely affect our ability to manage our overall operations and successfully implement our business strategy. We are subject to environmental regulation and environmental risks. We and our operations, both in the United States and abroad, are subject to national, state, provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. These environmental laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up sites, and certain damages resulting from present and past spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous substances or materials. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change often. Capital and operating expenses required to comply with environmental laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result in substantial fines and penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, in the United States impose liability on several grounds for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated soil, ground water and buildings and for damages to natural resources at a wide range of properties. For example, contamination at properties formerly owned or operated by us, as well as at properties we will own and operate, and properties to which hazardous substances were sent by us, may result in liability for us under environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of our assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer bases or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. 11 Table of Contents Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our end-user brands. Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or the value of our end-user brands. We also could be required to recall possible defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of GBC We may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of GBC. The success of our acquisition of GBC will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of GBC with our other businesses. Our success in realizing these synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our and GBC’s operations. Even if we are able to integrate the business operations of GBC successfully, we may not experience the full benefits of the synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities that we currently expect from this integration, or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, and the benefits from the acquisition may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies. The integration of ACCO Brands and GBC may present significant challenges. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating the GBC businesses. These difficulties include: • the challenge of integrating the GBC businesses while carrying on the ongoing operations of each business; • the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; • the challenge of integrating the business cultures of each company; • the challenge and cost of integrating the information technology systems of each company; and • the potential difficulties in retaining key officers and personnel through the transition. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. Any failure to successfully or cost-effectively integrate the GBC businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $805.1 million of outstanding debt. This indebtedness could have important consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other cash requirements; • limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements; • limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business due to debt service requirements; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions; • to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates; and • limiting our ability to buy back stock or pay cash dividends. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not have enough money to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants, which may restrict our operational flexibility. Certain covenants we have made in connection with our borrowings restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, pay dividends on and redeem capital stock, make other restricted payments, including investments, sell our assets, and enter into consolidations or mergers. Our senior secured credit agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, could result in an event of default under our credit and debt instruments, in which our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debts. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash. Our ability to generate cash is subject, in part, to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior secured credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debts, on or before maturity. We might be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facilities or our Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Spin-off From Fortune Brands We may be responsible for the payment of substantial United States federal income taxes if the spin-off from Fortune Brands and the merger through which we acquired GBC did not meet, or do not continue to meet, certain Internal Revenue Code requirements. In connection with our spin-off from Fortune Brands and acquisition of GBC, Fortune Brands, ACCO Brands and GBC were advised by counsel that the spin-off constituted a spin-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code and the merger through which we acquired GBC constituted a reorganization under section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Such advice was based on, among other things, current law and certain representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Fortune Brands, ACCO Brands and GBC, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in their opinions. A tax allocation agreement was entered into by Fortune Brands and ACCO Brands in connection with the spin-off and merger transactions and generally provides that we will be responsible for any taxes imposed on Fortune Brands or us as a result of either: • the failure of the spin-off to constitute a spin-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, or • the subsequent disqualification of the distribution of ACCO Brands common stock to Fortune Brands stockholders in connection with the spin-off as tax-free to Fortune Brands for United States federal income tax purposes, if such failure or disqualification is attributable to certain post-spin-off actions taken by or in respect of us (including our subsidiaries) or our stockholders, such as our acquisition by a third party at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure or disqualification. For example, even if the spin-off otherwise qualified as a spin-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution of our common stock to Fortune Brands common stockholders in connection with the spin-off may be disqualified as tax-free to Fortune Brands if there is an acquisition of our stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off and that results in a deemed acquisition of 50% or more of our common stock. For purposes of this test, any acquisitions of Fortune Brands stock or our stock within two years before or after the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Fortune Brands may be able to rebut that presumption. Also, for purposes of this test, the GBC merger will be treated as resulting in a deemed acquisition by GBC stockholders of approximately 34% of our common stock. The process for determining whether a change of ownership has occurred under the tax rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If we do not carefully monitor our compliance with these rules, we might inadvertently cause or permit a change of ownership to occur, triggering our obligation to indemnify Fortune Brands pursuant to the Fortune Brands/ACCO Brands tax allocation agreement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 