ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by issues that affect business, commercial and consumer spending decisions during periods of economic downturn. The majority of our products are used by businesses, whose purchasing power is influenced by general economic conditions. With respect to our office products, because we have typically targeted the higher-margin, premium-end of the product categories in which we compete, sales of our products have been very sensitive to deteriorating U.S. and global economic conditions, particularly in categories where we compete against private label or generic products that generally are sold at lower prices. The adverse effects of a sustained U.S. or international economic downturn as we have experienced in 2008 and 2009 including sustained periods of decreased consumer and business spending, high unemployment levels, or declining consumer or business confidence, along with continued volatility and disruption in the credit and capital markets, have and is likely to continue to result in reduced demand for our products. We believe that consumer and commercial end-users choose our products based on the status of our brands and the perception that our products have added value and a reputation for reliability, ease-of-use, performance and professional appearance than less expensive alternatives. However, in economic downturns, businesses and consumers may seek or be forced to purchase more lower-cost private label or other economy brands, or to forego certain purchases altogether. To the extent this trend continues to occur, we may experience a further reduction in sales volume, particularly with respect to our higher margin products. If our operating costs and expenses are not likewise reduced with a reduction in sales, it could contribute to further operating losses. 8 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, we had $725.8 million of outstanding debt. This indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, such as: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to indebtedness; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital or capital expenditures, or to fulfill debt service requirements or other cash requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions; • limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt; • to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates; and • limiting our ability to buy back our stock or pay cash dividends The agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to meet our expense and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If the sales decline we suffered in 2008 and 2009 continues or accelerates, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our debt service obligations when due. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt (potentially on unfavorable terms), sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or borrow more money. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our failure to comply with certain restrictive debt covenants, could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Certain covenants we have made in connection with our existing borrowings restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, incur certain liens on our assets, issue preferred stock or certain disqualified stock, pay dividends on capital stock, make other restricted payments, including investments, sell our assets, and enter into consolidations or mergers or other transactions with affiliates. Our asset-based revolving credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios under certain conditions and satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests and otherwise comply with our financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios, tests and covenants. Our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, or any inability to pay interest on, or principal of, our outstanding debt as it becomes due could result in an event of default under any of the agreements governing any 9 Table of Contents of our debt obligations, in which case our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of any of our indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of such acceleration and, if we were unable to obtain replacement financing or any such replacement financing was on terms that were less favorable than the indebtedness being replaced, our liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We require a significant amount of cash to service our debt. Our ability to meet our cash requirements and service our debt will be impacted by many factors that are outside our control, including the current global recession and restricted credit markets. Our future operating performance is dependent on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Sales of our products have recently declined in part due to the current global recession and restricted credit markets, which have adversely impacted our customers’ commercial spending. Any increase in the sales of our products is primarily dependent on recovery and growth in the commercial, business-to-business sector of the economy. If global economic conditions continue to adversely impact commercial spending, our sales could continue to decline or become increasingly concentrated in lower margin products, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The impact of the current global recession and restricted credit markets on our suppliers and customers is also unpredictable, and may create additional risks for us, both directly and indirectly. The inability of suppliers to access financing or the insolvency of one or more of our suppliers could lead to disruptions in our supply chain, which could adversely impact our sales and/or increase our costs. Our suppliers may require us to pay cash in advance or obtain letters of credit for their benefit as a condition to selling us their products and services. A number of retailers have recently sought bankruptcy protection. If one or more of our principal customers were to file for bankruptcy, our sales could be adversely impacted and our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable from any such customer could be limited. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Our operating performance and ability to comply with covenants under our borrowing arrangements are dependent on our continued ability to access funds under our credit and loan agreements, including under our new asset-backed revolving credit facility, and from cash on hand, maintain sales volumes, drive profitable growth, realize cost savings and generate cash from operations. The financial institutions that fund our new asset-based revolving credit facility are also being impacted by the volatility in the credit markets, and if one or more of them cannot fulfill our revolving credit requests, our operations may be adversely impacted. If our revolving credit is unavailable due to a lender not being able to fund requested amounts, or because we have not maintained compliance with our covenants, or we do not meet our costs, sales or growth initiatives within the time frame we expect, our cash flow could be materially adversely impacted. A material decrease in our cash flow could cause us to fail to meet covenants under our credit and loan agreements. A default under our credit or loan agreements could restrict or terminate our access to borrowings and materially impair our ability to meet our obligations as they come due. If we do not comply with any of our covenants and thereafter we do not obtain a waiver or amendment that otherwise addresses that non-compliance, our lenders may accelerate payment of all amounts outstanding under the affected borrowing arrangements, which amounts would immediately become due and payable, together with accrued interest. Such an acceleration would cause a default under the indentures governing the notes and the existing senior subordinated notes and other agreements that provide us with access to funding. Any one or more defaults, or our inability to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to service our indebtedness and meet our other needs, may require us to refinance all or a portion of our existing indebtedness or obtain additional financing or reduce expenditures that we deem necessary to our business. We cannot assure you that any refinancing of this kind would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained. The inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet our obligations to noteholders. 10 Table of Contents During the third quarter of 2009, the Company completed a series of transactions to refinance its indebtedness. These transactions resulted in both an increased amount of indebtedness as well as an increase to the weighted average interest rate on our indebtedness. As such, these transactions will increase the cost of servicing our debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. (For a further discussion on the Company’s refinancing transactions, see Note 11, Long-term debt and Short-term borrowings, under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.) Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future because the terms of our existing indebtedness do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so, within certain limits. Based on our borrowing base, as of December 31, 2009 our revolving credit facility permitted borrowing of up to an additional $156.4 million. If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. Our business is dependent on a limited number of customers, and a substantial reduction in sales to these customers could significantly impact our operating results. The office products industry is concentrated in a small number of major customers, principally office products superstores (which combine contract stationers, retail and mail order), office products resellers and mass merchandisers. A relatively limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our total net sales. Our top ten customers accounted for 49% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Sales to Staples and Office Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries during the same period amounted to approximately 13% and 11%, respectively, of our 2009 net sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business from one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A concentrated customer base also exposes us to increased concentration of customer credit risk. A bankruptcy of one or more of the Company’s major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations In 2008 and in early 2009 several consumer products retailers sought protection under various bankruptcy laws. Were any of the Company’s major customers to make a bankruptcy filing, the Company could be adversely impacted. The nature of that impact could be not only a reduction in future sales, but also a loss associated with the potential inability to collect any outstanding accounts receivable from any such customer. Such a result could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows and ability to remain in compliance with our loan covenants. Our pension costs could substantially increase as a result of volatility in the equity markets or interest rates. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of these plans. The exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, and a significant increase in our pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flow. Investment returns on pension plan assets, which were negative in 2008, had a significant impact on our financial position, particularly our stockholders’ equity. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. During 2008, we recorded $274.4 million of goodwill and asset impairment charges, which adversely affected that year’s financial results. Future events may occur that may also adversely affect the reported value of 11 Table of Contents our assets and require impairment charges, which could further adversely affect our financial results. Such events may include, but are not limited to, a sustained decline in our stock price, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. Our industry is subject to further consolidation, and further consolidation of our customers could cause a reduction to our margins and sales. While the office products industry already has a concentrated reseller base, if current trends continue, these resellers, our customers, are likely to consolidate further. Customer consolidation is likely to result in pricing pressures to which we are subject, leading to downward pressure on our margins and profits. Additionally, consolidation among customers can result in decreased inventory levels maintained by these customers, which can negatively impact our sales during the transition period for any such consolidation. Further, there can be no assurance that consolidating customers would leverage our international scope and distribution capabilities by concentrating their purchasing activity with us. If we do not compete successfully in the competitive office products industry, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets. We believe that the principal points of competition in these markets are product innovation, quality, price, merchandising, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness and completeness of delivery, conformity to customer specifications and post-sale support. Competitive conditions may require us to significantly discount prices in order to retain business or market share. We believe that our competitive position will depend on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing and sourcing, quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various market categories in which we compete. We may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary to anticipate those changing needs and we may not anticipate, identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise be successful in maintaining our competitive position. There are no significant barriers to entry into the markets for most of our products and services. We also face increasing competition from our own customers’ private label and direct sourcing initiatives. Our business is subject to risks associated with seasonality, which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, as it concerns both historical sales and profit, has experienced higher sales volume in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. Two principal factors have contributed to this seasonality: the office products industry’s customers and our product line. We are major suppliers of products related to the “back-to-school” season, which occurs principally during the months of June, July, August and September for our North American business, December and January for our Australian business; and our product line includes several products that lend themselves to calendar year-end purchase timing. If either of these typical seasonal increases in sales of certain portions of our product line does not materialize, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The raw materials and labor costs we incur are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. The primary materials used in the manufacturing of many of our products are resin, plastics, polyester and polypropylene substrates, paper, steel, wood, aluminum, melamine, zinc and cork. In general, our gross profit may be affected from time to time by fluctuations in the prices of these materials because our customers require advance notice and negotiation to pass through raw material price increases, giving rise to a delay before cost increases can be passed to our customers. We attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in these costs through a 12 Table of Contents variety of measures, including periodic purchases, future delivery contracts and longer-term price contracts together with holding our own inventory; however, these measures may not always be effective. Inflationary and other increases in costs of materials and labor have occurred in the past and may recur, and raw materials may not continue to be available in adequate supply in the future. Shortages in the supply of any of the raw materials we use in our products and other factors, such as inflation, could result in price increases that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to supplier credit and order fulfillment risk. We purchase products for resale under credit arrangements with our vendors. In weak global markets, vendors may seek credit insurance to protect against non-payment of amounts due to them. If we continue to experience declining operating performance, and if we experience severe liquidity challenges, vendors may demand that we accelerate our payment for their products. Also, credit insurers may curtail or eliminate coverage to the vendors. If vendors begin to demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or if they begin to require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us, these demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and result in a severe drain on our liquidity. In addition, if our vendors are unable to access liquidity or become insolvent, they could be unable to supply us with product. Also, some of our vendors are dependent upon other industries for raw materials and other products and services necessary to produce and provide the products they supply to us. Any adverse impacts to those industries, as a result of the economic slowdown or credit crisis, could have a ripple effect on these vendors, which could adversely impact their ability to supply us at levels we consider necessary or appropriate for our business, or at all. Any such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flow. Risks associated with our foreign operations could harm our business. Approximately 51% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 were from foreign sales. Our foreign operations may be significantly affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where our products are manufactured, distributed, or sold. Additionally, while the recent relative volatility of the U.S. dollar to other currencies has impacted our businesses’ sales, profitability and cash flows as the results of non-U.S. operations have decreased when reported in U.S. dollars, we cannot predict the rate at which the U.S. dollar will trade against other currencies in the future. If the U.S. dollar were to substantially strengthen, making the dollar significantly more valuable relative to other currencies in the global market, such an increase could harm our ability to compete, and therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. More specifically, a significant portion of the products we sell are sourced from China and other Southeast Asian countries and are paid for in U.S. dollars. Thus, movements of their local currency to the U.S. dollar have the same impacts as raw material price changes in addition to the currency translation impact noted above. Risks associated with outsourcing the production of certain of our products could harm our business. Historically, we have outsourced certain manufacturing functions to third-party service providers in China and other countries. Outsourcing generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the manufacturing process potentially leading to production delays or interruptions, inferior product quality control and misappropriation of trade secrets. In addition, performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems, which could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of these third-party service providers becomes insolvent or unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs, in a timely manner or any combination thereof, our ability to deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. Furthermore, the need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity could result in unforeseen operational 13 Table of Contents problems and additional costs. Substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. Moreover, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This dependence on outsourcing also exposes our cost of goods sold to cost fluctuations associated with foreign exchange currency movements, notably a change in the relative values of the Chinese yuan and the U.S. dollar. We depend on GMP Co. Ltd. to supply many of the laminating machines we distribute, and any inability of GMP Co. Ltd. to perform its obligations could harm our business. We rely on GMP Co. Ltd., in which we hold a minority equity interest, as our sole supplier of many of the laminating machines we distribute. GMP may not be able to continue to perform any or all of its obligations to us. GMP’s equipment manufacturing facility is located in the Republic of Korea, and its ability to supply us with laminating machines may be affected by Korean and other regional or worldwide economic, political or governmental conditions. Additionally, GMP has a highly leveraged capital structure and its ability to continue to obtain financing is required to ensure the orderly continuation of its operations. If GMP became incapable of supplying us with adequate equipment, and if we could not locate a suitable alternative supplier in a timely manner or at all, and negotiate favorable terms with such supplier, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Any inability to secure, protect and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business. We own and license many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to our business. The loss of any individual patent or license may not be material to us taken as a whole, but the loss of a number of patents or licenses that represent principal portions of our business, or expenses related to defending or maintaining the patents or licenses, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may become involved in intellectual property claims being asserted against us that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of our management, and require us to pay substantial damages or require us to obtain a license, which might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We could also incur substantial costs to pursue legal actions relating to the unauthorized use by third parties of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. If our brands become diluted, if our patents are infringed or if our competitors introduce brands and products that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, the value that our consumers associate with our brands may become diminished, which could negatively impact our sales If third parties assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we are not able to successfully resolve those claims, or our intellectual property becomes invalidated, we could lose our ability to use the technology, brand names or other intellectual property that were the subject of those claims, which, if such intellectual property is material to the operation of our business or our financial results, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Certain of our patents covering products in the computer security category begin to expire in January 2012. We recognized approximately $4.6 million, $7.6 million and $7.4 million in royalty revenue from these patents in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Once these patents expire and should we not create new proprietary intellectual property, competitors may be able to legally utilize our technology and competition could increase, resulting in the Company realizing lower gross margin from the loss of royalty receipts and possibly lower gross margin for certain of our products. There can be no assurance that the royalty income we currently receive pursuant to license agreements covering the patents that will expire can be replaced, that, prior to expiration of the patents, we will create new proprietary intellectual property in the computer security product category, or that we will not experience a decline in gross profit margin on related products if new proprietary intellectual property is not developed. 14 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the development, manufacture and sale of our products, and key employees may not remain with us in the future. As part of our cost reduction initiatives, we temporarily suspended the 401(k) employer matching contributions and froze the accrual of benefits under our pension plan, which will adversely affect our key employees. These actions could result in an inability for us to retain some of our key employees. If we do not retain our key employees, we may experience substantial disruption in our businesses. The loss of key management personnel or other key employees or our potential inability to attract such personnel may adversely affect our ability to manage our overall operations and successfully implement our business strategy. We are subject to global environmental regulation and environmental risks. We and our operations, both in the United States and abroad, are subject to national, state, provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. These environmental laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up sites, and certain damages resulting from present and past spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous substances or materials. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change often. Capital and operating expenses required to comply with environmental laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result in substantial fines and penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, in the United States impose liability on several grounds for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated soil, ground water and buildings and for damages to natural resources at a wide range of properties. For example, contamination at properties formerly owned or operated by us, as well as at properties we will own and operate, and properties to which hazardous substances were sent by us, may result in liability for us under environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our end-user brands. Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or the value of our end-user brands. We also could be required to recall and possibly discontinue the sale of possible defective or unsafe products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 