ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by issues that affect business, commercial and consumer spending decisions during periods of economic downturn. The majority of our products are used by businesses, whose purchasing power is influenced by general economic conditions. With respect to our office products, because we have typically targeted the higher-margin, premium-end of the product categories in which we compete, sales of our products have been very sensitive to deteriorating U.S. and global economic conditions, particularly in categories where we compete against private label or generic products that generally are sold at lower prices. The adverse effect of a sustained U.S. or international economic downturn as we have seen in 2008 and expect to continue in 2009, including sustained periods of decreased consumer and business spending, high unemployment levels, or declining consumer or business confidence, along with continued volatility and disruption in the credit and capital markets, have and is likely to continue to result in reduced demand for our products. We believe that consumer and commercial end-users choose our products based on the status of our brands and the perception that our products have added value and a reputation for reliability, ease-of-use, performance and professional appearance than less expensive alternatives. However, in periods of economic uncertainty, businesses and consumers may seek or be forced to purchase more private label or other economy brands, or to forego certain purchases altogether. We are working with our customers to expand our offering and provide private label products to them but we cannot be assured that we will gain significant additional product placement by doing so. To the extent this continues to occur, we could experience a further reduction in sales volume, particularly with respect to our higher margin products and if our operating costs and expenses are not reduced accordingly, it could contribute to further operating losses. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had $708.7 million of outstanding debt. This indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other cash requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions; • limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements; • limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business due to debt service requirements; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates; and • limiting our ability to buy back our stock or pay cash dividends. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If the sales decline we suffered in 2008 was to continue or accelerate we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our 9 Table of Contents debt service obligations. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants, which may restrict our operational flexibility. Certain covenants we have made in connection with our borrowings restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, pay dividends on capital stock, make other restricted payments, including investments, sell our assets, and enter into consolidations or mergers. Our senior secured credit agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests and otherwise comply with our financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those ratios, tests and covenants. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, could result in an event of default under our credit and debt instruments, in which our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. Further, in such an event, our lenders would not be required to make further loans to us, and assuming similar facilities were not established and that we were unable to obtain replacement financing, it would materially affect our liquidity and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We require a significant amount of cash to service our debts. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash. Our ability to generate cash is subject, in part, to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior secured credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debts, on or before maturity. We might be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facilities or obtain a replacement to our revolving credit facility in August 2010 or our Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to maintain compliance with the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange could ultimately result in the delisting of our common stock. Recently, our common stock has traded at low prices and we have experienced a significant decline in market capitalization and stockholder’s equity. If our common stock price, market capitalization or stockholder’s equity were to fall below and remain below the New York Stock Exchange’s minimum criteria, we would be at risk of being determined not in compliance with New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. If we ultimately were to be delisted, we may apply for listing on another exchange, however, there is no assurance that we will meet the requirements for initial listing or maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements of such an exchange. Delisting from the New York Stock Exchange could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, significantly limit the liquidity of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional equity financing. Our business is dependent on a limited number of customers, and a substantial reduction in sales to these customers could significantly impact our operating results. The office products industry is concentrated in a small number of major customers, principally office products superstores (which combine contract stationers, retail and mail order), office products distributors and mass merchandisers. A relatively limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our total net sales. Our top ten customers accounted for 47% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. 10 Table of Contents Sales to Staples (which acquired Corporate Express in July 2008) and Office Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries during the same period amounted to approximately 13% and 11%, respectively, of our 2008 net sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business from one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A concentrated customer base also exposes us to increased concentration of customer credit risk. A bankruptcy of one or more of the Company’s major customers could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations In 2008 and in early 2009 several consumer products retailers have sought protection under various bankruptcy laws. Were any of the Company’s major customers to make a bankruptcy filing, the Company could be adversely impacted. The nature of that impact could be not only a reduction in future sales, but also a loss associated with the potential inability to collect any outstanding accounts receivable from any such customer. Such a result could negatively impact the Company’s financial results and cash flows and ability to remain in compliance with our loan covenants. Our pension costs could substantially increase as a result of volatility in the equity markets or interest rates. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Changes in interest rates and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of these plans. The exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, and a significant increase in our pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flow. Investment returns on pension plan assets, which were negative in 2008 and through the first two months of 2009, have had a significant impact on the Company’s financial position at December 31, 2008, particularly its stockholders’ equity. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of our assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, a sustained decline in our stock price, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer bases or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. Our industry is subject to further consolidation, and further consolidation of our customers could cause a reduction to our margins and sales. While the office products industry already has a concentrated reseller base, if current trends continue, these resellers, our customers, are likely to consolidate further. Customer consolidation is likely to result in pricing pressures, to which we are subject, leading to downward pressure on our margins and profits. Additionally, consolidation among customers can result in decreased inventory levels maintained by these customers, which can negatively impact our sales during the transition period. Even should customers continue to consolidate there can be no assurance that those customers would leverage our international scope and distribution capabilities by concentrating their purchasing activity with us. If we do not compete successfully in the competitive office products industry, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets. We believe that the principal points of competition in these markets are product innovation, quality, price, merchandising, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness and completeness of delivery, conformity to customer specifications and post-sale support. Competitive conditions may require us to significantly discount price in 11 Table of Contents order to retain business or market share. We believe that our competitive position will depend on continued investment in innovation and product development, manufacturing and sourcing, quality standards, marketing and customer service and support. Our success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various market categories in which we compete. We may not have sufficient resources to make the investments that may be necessary to anticipate those changing needs and we may not anticipate, identify, develop and market products successfully or otherwise be successful in maintaining our competitive position. There are no significant barriers to entry into the markets for most of our products and services. We also face increasing competition from our own customers’ private label and direct sourcing initiatives. Our business is subject to risks associated with seasonality, which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, as it concerns both historical sales and profit, has experienced higher sales volume in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. Two principal factors have contributed to this seasonality: the office products industry’s customers and our product line. We are major suppliers of products related to the “back-to-school” season, which occurs principally during the months of June, July, August and September for our North American business; and our product line includes several products which lend themselves to calendar year-end purchase timing. If either of these typical seasonal increases in sales of certain portions of our product line does not materialize, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The raw materials and labor costs we incur are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. The primary materials used in the manufacturing of many of our products are resin, plastics, polyester and polypropylene substrates, paper, steel, wood, aluminum, melamine and cork. In general, our gross profit may be affected from time to time by fluctuations in the prices of these materials because our customers require advance notice and negotiation to pass through raw material price increases, giving rise to a delay before cost increases can be passed to our customers. We attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in these costs through a variety of measures, including periodic purchases, future delivery contracts and longer-term price contracts together with holding our own inventory; however, these measures may not always be effective. Inflationary and other increases in costs of materials and labor have occurred in the past and may recur, and raw materials may not continue to be available in adequate supply in the future. Shortages in the supply of any of the raw materials we use in our products could result in price increases that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to supplier credit and order fulfillment risk. We purchase products for resale under credit arrangements with our vendors. In weak global markets, vendors may seek credit insurance to protect against non-payment of amounts due to them. If we continue to experience declining operating performance, and if we experience severe liquidity challenges, vendors may demand that we accelerate our payment for their products. Also, credit insurers may curtail or eliminate coverage to the vendors. If vendors begin to demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or if they begin to require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us, these demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and result in a severe drain on our liquidity. In addition, if our suppliers are unable to access liquidity or become insolvent, they could be unable to supply us with product. Also, some of our suppliers may serve other industries. Any adverse impacts to those industries, as a result of the economic slowdown or credit crisis, could have a ripple effect on these suppliers which could adversely impact their ability to supply us as necessary. Any such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flow. 12 Table of Contents Risks associated with our foreign operations could harm our business. Approximately 52% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 were from foreign sales. Our foreign operations may be significantly affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where our products are manufactured, distributed, or sold. Additionally, while the recent relative volatility of the U.S. dollar to other currencies has impacted our businesses’ sales as the results of non-U.S. operations have decreased when reported in U.S. dollars, we cannot predict the rate at which the U.S. dollar will trade against other currencies in the future. If the trend of the U.S. dollar were to further strengthen, making the dollar significantly more valuable relative to other currencies in the global market, such an increase could harm our ability to compete, our financial condition and our results of operations. More specifically, a significant portion of the products we sell are sourced from China and other Far Eastern countries and are paid for in U.S. dollars. Thus, movements of their local currency to the U.S. dollar have the same impacts as raw material price changes in addition to the currency translation impact noted above. Risks associated with outsourcing the production of certain of our products could harm our business. Historically, we have outsourced certain manufacturing functions to third-party service providers in China and other countries. Outsourcing generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the manufacturing process potentially leading to production delays or interruptions, inferior product quality control and misappropriation of trade secrets. In addition, performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems which could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs, in a timely manner or any combination thereof, our ability to deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. Furthermore, the need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity could result in unforeseen operational problems and additional costs. Substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. Moreover, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This dependence on outsourcing exposes our cost of goods sold to additional cost fluctuations associated with foreign exchange currency movements, notably a change in the relative values of the Chinese yuan and the U.S. dollar. We depend on certain manufacturing sources whose inability to perform their obligations could harm our business. We rely on GMP Co. Ltd., in which we hold a minority equity interest of less than 20%, as our sole supplier of many of the laminating machines we distribute. GMP may not be able to continue to perform any or all of its obligations to us. GMP’s equipment manufacturing facility is located in the Republic of Korea, and its ability to supply us with laminating machines may be affected by Korean and other regional or worldwide economic, political or governmental conditions. Additionally, GMP has a highly-leveraged capital structure and its ability to continue to obtain financing is required to ensure the orderly continuation of its operations. If GMP became incapable of supplying us with adequate equipment, and if we could not locate a suitable alternative supplier in a timely manner or at all, and negotiate favorable terms with such supplier, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents Our inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business. We have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to our business. The loss of any individual patent or license may not be material to us taken as a whole, but the loss of a number of patents or licenses that represent principal portions of our business, or expenses related to defending or maintaining the patents or licenses, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the development, manufacture and sale of our products, and key employees may not remain with us in the future. As part of our cost reduction initiatives, we recently implemented company-wide salary reductions, suspended 401(k) employer matching contributions and froze the accrual of benefits under our pension plan which will adversely affect our key employees. These actions could result in an inability for us to retain some of our key employees. If we do not retain our key employees, we may experience substantial disruption in our businesses. The loss of key management personnel or other key employees or our potential inability to attract such personnel may adversely affect our ability to manage our overall operations and successfully implement our business strategy. We are subject to environmental regulation and environmental risks. We and our operations, both in the United States and abroad, are subject to national, state, provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations and prohibitions on the discharge and emission of, and establish standards for the use, disposal and management of, certain materials and waste. These environmental laws and regulations also impose liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up sites, and certain damages resulting from present and past spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous substances or materials. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change often. Capital and operating expenses required to comply with environmental laws and regulations can be significant, and violations may result in substantial fines and penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, in the United States impose liability on several grounds for the investigation and cleanup of contaminated soil, ground water and buildings and for damages to natural resources at a wide range of properties. For example, contamination at properties formerly owned or operated by us, as well as at properties we will own and operate, and properties to which hazardous substances were sent by us, may result in liability for us under environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our end-user brands. Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or the value of our end-user brands. We also could be required to recall and possibly discontinue the sale of possible defective or unsafe products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured deductible or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. 14 Table of Contents We may not realize expected benefits from our cost reduction initiatives. In order to improve the efficiency of our operations, we are presently engaged in certain cost reduction activities, and have plans to continue these actions through 2009 in order to achieve certain cost savings. We cannot assure you that we will realize the full amount of expected cost savings or improve our operating performance as a result of our current and future cost reduction activities. We also cannot assure you that our cost reduction activities will not adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, the significant loss of whom could adversely affect our operating results. Further, as a result of our cost reduction activities, we may not have the appropriate level of resources and personnel to appropriately react to significant changes or fluctuations in our markets and in the level of demand for our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 