Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties. The accompanying risk factors should be read in conjunction with the information included in this Form 10-K. Restrictions imposed by the terms of the Company’s Bank Agreement may limit the operating and financial flexibility. All of the Company’s domestic assets, which are not otherwise subject to lien, have been pledged as security for any borrowings under the Bank Agreement. The Bank Agreement contains various business and financial covenants including among other things, a debt service ratio, a net worth covenant and a ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth. The Company’s failure to comply with the obligations under the Bank Agreement may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of the indebtedness under the Bank Agreement. The Company cannot be certain that it will have sufficient funds available to pay any accelerated indebtedness or that it will have the ability to refinance accelerated indebtedness on favorable terms should an event of default occur. The Company has numerous competitors which have financial and other resources greater than the Company’s. Should the Company not compete successfully with its competitors, this could result in an adverse affect on results of operations. NBS encounters competition from approximately 11 domestic and 15 foreign competitors in the sale of its products. Many of the Company’s competitors have financial, engineering, product development, sales and marketing and other resources greater than the Company’s. Should the Company be unable to compete with its competitors effectively by developing and introducing innovative and reliable new products on a timely basis, there could be an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. Delays in receipt of raw materials could interrupt manufacturing schedules which could have an adverse affect on results of operations. The raw materials used by the Company include stainless steel, carbon steel, copper, brass, aluminum and various plastics. Some components are purchased from others, including pumps, compressors, plumbing fittings, electrical and electronic components, gauges, meters, motors, glassware and general purpose hardware. Many of these components are built to the Company's specifications. NBS is not dependent upon any single supplier for any raw material or component, but delay in receipt of key components could adversely affect the manufacturing schedule. - 9 - The Company’s domestic business is significantly affected by United States government expenditures and grants for research to educational research institutions and industry. Should the government, for extended periods of time, decrease their level of expenditures and grants, there could be an adverse affect on results of operations. The Company sells its equipment to biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, agricultural and chemical companies, other industrial customers engaged in biotechnology and to medical schools, universities, research institutes, hospitals, private laboratories and laboratories of federal, state and municipal government departments and agencies in the United States. While only a small percentage of the Company's sales are made directly to United States government departments and agencies, its domestic business is significantly affected by government expenditures and grants for research to educational research institutions and to industry. Should the United States government, for extended periods of time, decrease their level of expenditures and grants, there could be an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. Fisher Scientific accounted for 13.8%, 16.0% and 15.9%, respectively, of consolidated net sales during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. A subsidiary of Fisher Scientific manufactures products that compete with the Company’s shaker products. A significant change or termination in the distribution agreement with Fisher Scientific could have an adverse affect on results of operations. Since 1990, Fisher Scientific has been the exclusive distributor of certain products manufactured by the Company. In 2005, Fisher Scientific and the Company renewed their distributorship agreement. While Fisher is the exclusive U.S. distributor for certain NBS shakers, NBS markets and sells its INNOVA shakers and other products on a direct basis. Fisher also distributes a few selected INNOVA models and is the exclusive U.S. distributor of the Company’s CO2 incubators, although the Company sells its CO2 incubators directly as well. Fisher Scientific is also the exclusive distributor for the Company’s C-Line shakers in certain European countries and has a broader distribution arrangement with the Company in Canada and France. A subsidiary of Fisher Scientific also manufactures products that compete with the Company’s shaker products. Fisher Scientific accounted for approximately 13.8%, 16.0% and 15.9%, respectively, of consolidated net sales during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Should a significant change or termination of this agreement occur this could have an adverse affect on the results of operations. The Company’s business relies heavily on foreign sales. Changes in economic, political and other risks associated with these activities could have an adverse affect on results of operations. NBS also sells its equipment, both directly and through scientific equipment dealers to foreign companies, institutions and governments. The major portion of its foreign sales are made in Canada, Europe, China, Japan, India, Taiwan and Brazil. NBS also sells its products in Africa and other Asian and Latin American countries. These sales may be substantially affected by changes in the capital investment policies of foreign governments or by the availability of hard currency. These sales may also be affected by U.S. export control regulations applicable to scientific equipment. Should any of the aforementioned events occur, there could be an adverse affect on the results of operations. - 10 - The Company relies heavily on foreign operations. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a substantial impact on results of operations. Substantially all of the orders received by the Company's domestic operations are recorded in United States dollars. Outside North America, the Company books orders for equipment in Euros and British Pounds as well as United States dollars. The assets and liabilities of the Company's European subsidiaries are valued in local currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates between those currencies and the United States dollar could have a substantial impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements, as measured in United States dollars. Sales to the Company’s foreign customers are influenced by changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar as those changes affect the cost of the Company's equipment to foreign customers. Certain countries may not be able to make substantial capital purchases in dollars for economic or political reasons. Should changes in foreign currency exchange rates make it more difficult for foreign customers to purchase the Company’s products, the Company’s results of operations could be negatively affected. The Company does not have significant redundant manufacturing operations at its facilities. If any of the Company’s facilities are unable to produce and ship products, it could have an adverse affect on results of operations. The Company does not maintain significant redundant manufacturing operations at its facilities. Any event impacting the manufacturing facilities, or the equipment, or suppliers including, without limitation, wars, terrorist activities and natural disasters could delay or suspend manufacturing and shipment of products which could have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. Even though the Company carries business interruption insurance policies, losses could exceed the coverage available under these policies. The Company’s New Jersey manufacturing employees are covered under a collective bargaining agreement. A strike, walkout or lockout for a significant period of time there could have an adverse affect on results of operations. The Company's New Jersey manufacturing employees are represented by District 15 of the International Association of Machinists, AFL-CIO under a contract which expires in December 2007. The Company considers its labor relations to be good. However, if a strike, walkout or lockout occurred for a significant period of time, it could have an adverse affect on results of operations - 11 - The Company could be exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulations of corporate governance and disclosure standards. In March 2005, the SEC postponed, for one year, the compliance date for reporting on internal controls by non-accelerated filers. Despite this postponement, the Company expects to continue to spend an increased amount of management time and internal and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of the Company’s internal control system and attestations of the effectiveness of these system by the Company’s independent auditors. The Company will be documenting and testing internal control systems and procedures and considering improvements that could be necessary in order for the Company to comply with the requirements of Section 404 by the end of 2007. This process has required the Company to hire outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls over financial reporting, in the event that the Company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent auditors determine that the controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investors perceptions of the Company could be adversely affected and could cause a decline in market price of the Company’s stock. A significant disruption in information technology systems, such as failure to properly implement a new Oracle Enterprise Resource Planning system as previously announced could adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company. The Company has begun the implementation of a new Oracle Enterprise Resource Planning system. This system will replace many of the Company’s existing operating and financial systems. Such an implementation is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company. Item 