ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (Continued) Commonwealth’s competition comes from other banks and savings institutions, brokerages, credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. • First Commonwealth’s branch optimization plan may not produce desired results. First Commonwealth’s branch optimization plan has resulted in six newly constructed or renovated branch offices over the past year and is expected to result in six more over the next year. These changes could involve significant expenses, which may exceed forecasted costs. Several of these new constructions involve de novo branch offices. For a de novo branch office, the period of time that it takes to achieve profitability could exceed our forecasted expectations resulting in higher operating expenses relative to operating income. • Changes in accounting standards could materially impact First Commonwealth’s financial statements. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, First Commonwealth could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. First Commonwealth cannot predict the nature or the extent of the effect on our business and earnings of these changes in accounting standards. • New litigation or changes in current litigation could adversely affect First Commonwealth’s financial condition or results of operation. Although there is currently no material litigation to which First Commonwealth is the subject, future litigation that arises during the normal course of business could be material and have a negative impact on First Commonwealth’s earnings. Future litigation or changes in current litigation could also adversely impact the reputation of First Commonwealth in the communities that it serves. • Future acquisitions that First Commonwealth chooses to pursue could place heavy demands on our employees, disrupt our business and cause us to not realize expected earnings. First Commonwealth cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions that we will undertake in future periods. Federal and state regulatory approval must generally be received before the company could acquire a bank or bank holding company. First Commonwealth cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals would be granted. First Commonwealth could be required to sell banks or branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company could cause First Commonwealth not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations could be greater than expected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments First Commonwealth does not have any unresolved SEC staff comments. 8 Table of Contents FIRST COMMONWEALTH FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 