ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS continued INDUSTRY AND CORPORATE RISK FACTORS continued ● Significant legal actions could subject the Corporation to substantial uninsured liabilities. The Corporation is from time to time subject to claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by the Corporation’s regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect itself from the cost of these claims, the Corporation maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However, the Corporation’s insurance coverage may not cover all claims against the Corporation or continue to be available to the Corporation at a reasonable cost. As a result, the Corporation may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition ● Negative publicity could damage the Corporation’s reputation and adversely impact its business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Corporation’s earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in the Corporation’s business. Negative publicity can result from the Corporation’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Corporation to litigation and regulatory action. Although the Corporation takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, the Corporation is inherently exposed to this risk. ● Acquisitions may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. The Corporation regularly explores opportunities to acquire banks, financial institutions, or other financial services businesses or assets. The Corporation cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause the Corporation not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of the Corporation’s business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. ● The Corporation may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Corporation has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Additionally, due to participation in the CPP, the Corporation may not increase the dividend for three years from the date of the Agreement without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, unless the preferred shares sold to the U.S. Treasury have been redeemed in whole or transferred to a third party which is not an affiliate of the Corporation. ● The Corporation’s stock price can be volatile. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the Corporation’s quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Corporation; new technology used or services offered by the Corporation’s competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry, and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could also cause the Corporation’s stock price to decrease, regardless of the Corporation’s operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 24 PART 1: ITEM 2., ITEM 3. AND ITEM 4 