ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS There are a number of factors, including those specified below, that may adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that the Corporation currently does not know about or currently views as immaterial may also impair the Corporation’s business or adversely impact its financial results or stock price. INDUSTRY AND CORPORATE RISK FACTORS · The current banking crisis, including the Enactment of EESA and ARRA (American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009) may significantly affect the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price of the Corporation. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for the last couple of years, reaching unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. EESA, which established TARP, was signed into law in October 2008. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of common shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, the business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. ● The Corporation’s business and financial results are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. The Corporation’s business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the United States economy and the state and local economies in which the Corporation operates. For example, a prolonged economic downturn, continued increase in unemployment, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could result in further deterioration of credit quality, an increase in the allowance for loan losses, or reduced demand for loan or fee-based products and services. Changes in the financial performance and condition of the Corporation’s borrowers could negatively affect repayment of those borrowers’ loans. In addition, changes in securities market conditions and monetary fluctuations could adversely affect the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet the Corporation’s liquidity needs. ● Changes in the domestic interest rate environment could reduce the Corporation’s net interest income. The operations of financial institutions, such as the Corporation, are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution’s net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, the Corporation’s balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments. Direct investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. ● Changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing banks and financial services companies could alter the Corporation’s business environment and adversely affect operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part the Corporation’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the Corporation’s net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that the Corporation holds, such as debt securities. The Corporation and the Bank are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes, regulations or policies could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products that the Corporation offers and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. 20 PART I: ITEM 1A. AND ITEM 1B. INDUSTRY AND CORPORATE RISK FACTORS continued The Corporation cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on the Corporation’s financial condition or results of operations. See a description of recent legislation in the “Legislature and Regulatory Initiatives to Address Financial and Economic Crises” section of Item 1: Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ● The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. The Corporation competes with other banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Also, the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which the Corporation and financial services industry are highly dependent, could present operational issues and require capital spending. ● Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may also affect the Corporation’s earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. ● The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation’s loan portfolio. The Corporation’s allowance consists of three components: probable losses estimated from individual reviews of specific loans, probable losses estimated from historical loss rates, and probable losses resulting from economic, environmental, qualitative or other deterioration above and beyond what is reflected in the first two components of the allowance. The process for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is critical to the Corporation’s financial results. It requires management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments, as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain. Therefore, the allowance for loan losses, considering current factors at the time, including economic conditions and ongoing internal and external examination processes, will increase or decrease as deemed necessary to ensure the allowance for loan losses remains adequate. In addition, the allowance as a percentage of charge offs and nonperforming loans will change at different points in time based on credit performance, loan mix and collateral values. In connection with recent economic developments, many financial institutions, including the Corporation, have experienced unusual and significant declines in the performance of their loan portfolios, and the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, it is likely that loan delinquencies and credit losses may increase. Although the Corporation believes its underwriting and loan review procedures are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected in the event the quality of its loan portfolio deteriorates. ● The Corporation may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Corporation seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. The Corporation’s strategy for credit risk management includes conservative credit policies and underwriting criteria for all loans, as well as an overall credit limit for each customer significantly below legal lending limits. The strategy also emphasizes diversification on a regional geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit quality reviews and management reviews of large credit exposures and loans experiencing deterioration of credit quality. There is a continuous review of the loan portfolio, including an internally administered loan “watch” list and an independent loan review. The evaluation takes into consideration identified credit problems, as well as the possibility of losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are not specifically identified. Although the Corporation believes that its underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Corporation may incur losses on loans due to the factors previously discussed. ● The Corporation faces operational risks because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions. The Corporation operates in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Corporation’s operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Corporation, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Corporation could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. ● A natural disaster could harm the Corporation’s business. Natural disasters could harm the Corporation’s operations directly through interference with communications, as well as through the destruction of facilities and operational, financial and management information systems. These events could prevent the Corporation from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling its flow of business. 21 PART I: ITEM 1A. AND ITEM 1B. INDUSTRY AND CORPORATE RISK FACTORS continued ● The Corporation faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including “hacking” and “identity theft”. The computer systems and network infrastructure the Corporation uses could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Corporation’s operations are dependent upon the ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in operations could adversely affect the business and financial results. In addition, computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. ● The Corporation relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity needs. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its bank and non-bank subsidiaries. The Corporation receives substantially all of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Corporation’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank subsidiaries may pay to the Corporation. ● The Corporation’s reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. The Corporation’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods, so they comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report the Corporation’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Corporation’s reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the Corporation’s financial condition and results, and require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include: the allowance for loan losses; the valuation of investment securities; the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets; and pension accounting. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the Corporation may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for loan losses and/or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant provision for impairment of its investment securities; recognize significant impairment on its goodwill and intangible assets; or significantly increase its pension liability. As part of its function of assisting the Corporation’s Board of Directors in discharging its responsibility of ensuring all types of risk to the organization are properly being managed, mitigated and monitored by management, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees management’s accounting policies and methods. For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 7 Part II. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. ● A write-down of all or part of the Corporation’s goodwill could materially reduce its net income and net worth. At December 31, 2010, the Corporation had over $141 million of goodwill recorded on its consolidated balance sheet. Under ASC 340-20, Other Assets and Deferred Costs, “Goodwill” the Corporation is required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as well as on an interim basis, if events or changes indicate that the asset may be impaired. An impairment loss must be recognized for any excess of carrying value over the fair value of goodwill. The fair value is determined based on internal valuations using management’s assumptions of future growth rates, future attrition, discount rates, multiples of earnings or other relevant factors. The resulting estimated fair value could result in material write-downs of goodwill and recording of impairment losses. Such a write-down could materially reduce the Corporation’s net income and overall net worth. The Corporation also cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the fair value of goodwill. Such events include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the effect of the economic environment on the Corporation’s customer base, or a material negative change in its relationship with significant customers. ● Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Corporation’s financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively; resulting in the restating of prior period financial statements. ● Significant legal actions could subject the Corporation to substantial uninsured liabilities. The Corporation is from time to time subject to claims related to its operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by the Corporation’s regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect itself from the cost of these claims, the Corporation maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However, the Corporation’s insurance coverage may not cover all claims against the Corporation or continue to be available to the Corporation at a reasonable cost. As a result, the Corporation may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. 22 PART I: ITEM 1A. AND ITEM 1B. INDUSTRY AND CORPORATE RISK FACTORS continued ● Negative publicity could damage the Corporation’s reputation and adversely impact its business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Corporation’s earnings and capital from negative publicity, is inherent in the Corporation’s business. Negative publicity can result from the Corporation’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Corporation to litigation and regulatory action. Although the Corporation takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and other constituencies, the Corporation is inherently exposed to this risk. ● Acquisitions may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. The Corporation regularly explores opportunities to acquire banks, financial institutions, or other financial services businesses or assets. The Corporation cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause the Corporation not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of the Corporation’s business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. ● The Corporation may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Corporation has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Additionally, due to participation in the CPP, the Corporation may not increase the dividend for three years from the date of the Agreement without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, unless the preferred shares sold to the U.S. Treasury have been redeemed in whole or transferred to a third party which is not an affiliate of the Corporation. ● The Corporation’s stock price can be volatile. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the Corporation’s quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Corporation; new technology used or services offered by the Corporation’s competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry, and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could also cause the Corporation’s stock price to decrease, regardless of the Corporation’s operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 PART I: ITEM 2., ITEM 3. AND ITEM 4. 