ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (Continued) Business and Operational Risks (Continued) could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. We cannot predict the nature or the extent of the effect on our business and earnings of these changes in accounting standards. An interruption to our information systems could adversely impact our operations. We rely upon our information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including deposit and loan operations, as well as internal management functions. These systems and our operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by our employees, security breaches, computer viruses, intentional attacks by third parties or other unexpected events. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems could adversely impact our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New litigation or changes in current litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. Although we are not currently a party to any litigation that we consider to be material, future litigation may arise during the normal course of our business which could be material and have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Future litigation or changes in current litigation could also adversely impact our reputation, which is vital to our ability to compete in the communities that we serve. We may undertake acquisitions in the future which could place heavy demands on our employees, disrupt our business and cause us to not realize expected earnings. Our growth has come primarily though the acquisition of other financial institutions, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions as opportunities arise, both within and outside our current market area. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions that we will undertake in future periods. We may face difficulty in integrating an acquired company which could prevent us from realizing expected revenue growth or cost savings or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 