Item 1A: Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. Our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony’s PlayStation 2 and Microsoft’s Xbox. The success of our business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of current-generation video game platforms, the timely release, adequate supply, and success of new video game hardware systems, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be most successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which we are developing products may be delayed, may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. If the platforms for which we are developing products are not released when anticipated, are not available in adequate amounts to meet consumer demand, or do not attain wide 18 Table of Contents market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the resources we have committed, and our financial performance will be harmed. Our industry is cyclical and is in the midst of a transition period heading into the next cycle. During the transition, we expect our costs to continue to increase, we may experience a decline in sales as consumers anticipate and adopt next-generation products and our operating results may suffer and become more difficult to predict. Video game platforms have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. Sony’s PlayStation 2 was introduced in 2000 and Microsoft’s Xbox and the Nintendo GameCube were introduced in 2001. Microsoft released the Xbox 360 in November 2005, and we expect Sony and Nintendo to introduce new video game players into the market as well (so-called “next-generation platforms”) in the coming months. As a result, we believe that the interactive entertainment industry is in the midst of a transition stage leading into the next cycle. During this transition, we intend to continue developing and marketing new titles for current-generation video game platforms while we also make significant investments developing products for the next-generation platforms. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased costs during the transition to next-generation platforms, which are not likely to be offset in the near future. Moreover, we expect development costs for next-generation video games to be greater on a per-title basis than development costs for current-generation video games. We also expect that, as the current generation of platforms reaches the end of its cycle and next-generation platforms are introduced into the market, sales of video games for current-generation platforms will continue to decline as consumers replace their current-generation platforms with next-generation platforms, or defer game software purchases until they are able to purchase a next-generation platform. This decline in current-generation product sales may not be offset by increased sales of products for the new platforms. For example, following the launch of Sony’s PlayStation 2 platform, we experienced a significant decline in revenue from sales of products for Sony’s older PlayStation game console, which was not immediately offset by revenue generated from sales of products for the PlayStation 2. More recently, we have seen a sharp decrease in sales of titles for the Xbox following the launch of the Xbox 360. In addition, during the transition, we expect our operating results to be more volatile and difficult to predict, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. We expect the average price of current-generation titles to continue to decline. As a result of the transition to next-generation platforms, a more value-oriented consumer base, a greater number of current-generation titles being published, and significant pricing pressure from our competitors, we have experienced a decrease in the average price of our titles for current-generation platforms. As the interactive entertainment industry continues to transition to next-generation platforms, we expect few, if any, current-generation titles will be able to command premium price points, and we expect that even these titles will be subject to price reductions at an earlier point in their sales cycle than we have seen in prior years. We expect the average price of current-generation titles to continue to decline, which will have a negative effect on our margins and operating results. Our platform licensors set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. If one or more of the platform licensors adopt a different fee structure for future game consoles or we are unable to obtain such licenses, our profitability will be materially impacted. In November 2005, Microsoft released the Xbox 360 and, over the course of the next twelve months, we expect Sony and Nintendo to introduce new video game players into the market in various parts of the world. In order to publish products for a new video game player, we must take a license from the platform licensor, which gives the platform licensor the opportunity to set the fee structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly, certain platform licensors have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures for online gameplay and features for their consoles. The control that platform licensors have over the fee structures 19 Table of Contents for their future platforms and online access makes it difficult for us to predict our costs and profitability in the medium to long term. It is also possible that platform licensors may choose not to renew our licenses. Because publishing products for video game consoles is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee structures or failure to secure a license relationship would significantly harm our ability to generate revenues and/or profits. If we do not consistently meet our product development schedules, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our business is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our revenue occurring in the December quarter. In addition, we seek to release many of our products in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie or the beginning of a sports season or major sporting event. If we miss these key selling periods for any reason, including product delays or delayed introduction of a new platform for which we have developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately. Likewise, if a key event to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also suffer disproportionately. Our ability to meet product development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams required by the increasing complexity of our products, and the need to fine-tune our products prior to their release. We have experienced development delays for our products in the past, which caused us to push back release dates. In the future, any failure to meet anticipated production or release schedules would likely result in a delay of revenue or possibly a significant shortfall in our revenue, harm our profitability, and cause our operating results to be materially different than anticipated. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include: the popularity, price and timing of our games and the platforms on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies or the manner in which people play our games, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer. Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to our competitors’, less appealing to consumers, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original development schedule of our products and services, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our development expenses. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt to accelerate our development of new technologies, either to preserve our product or service launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. Our business is intensely competitive and “hit” driven. If we do not continue to deliver “hit” products and services or if consumers prefer our competitors’ products or services over our own, our operating results could suffer. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the United States and abroad. While many new products and services are regularly introduced, only a relatively small 20 Table of Contents number of “hit” titles accounts for a significant portion of total revenue in our industry. Hit products or services offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or services, offer competitive products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering a better value proposition (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well-received products and services, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to intellectual property, we will publish fewer hit titles and our revenue, profitability and cash flows will decline. Competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, our EA SPORTS products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players’ associations. Similarly, many of our other hit franchises, such as The Godfather, Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings, are based on key film and literary licenses. Competition for these licenses is intense. If we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses with significant commercial value, our revenues and profitability will decline significantly. Competition for these licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs. If patent claims continue to be asserted against us, we may be unable to sustain our current business models or profits, or we may be precluded from pursuing new business opportunities in the future. Many patents have been issued that may apply to widely-used game technologies, or to potential new modes of delivering, playing or monetizing game software products. For example, infringement claims under many issued patents are now being asserted against interactive software or online game sites. Several such claims have been asserted against us. We incur substantial expenses in evaluating and defending against such claims, regardless of the merits of the claims. In the event that there is a determination that we have infringed a third-party patent, we could incur significant monetary liability and be prevented from using the rights in the future, which could negatively impact our operating results. We may also discover that future opportunities to provide new and innovative modes of game play and game delivery to consumers may be precluded by existing patents that we are unable to license on reasonable terms. Other intellectual property claims may increase our product costs or require us to cease selling affected products. Many of our products include extremely realistic graphical images, and we expect that as technology continues to advance, images will become even more realistic. Some of the images and other content are based on real-world examples that may inadvertently infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Such claims or litigations could require us to stop selling the affected products, redesign those products to avoid infringement, or obtain a license, all of which would be costly and harm our business. From time to time we may become involved in other litigation which could adversely affect us. We are currently, and from time to time in the future may become, subject to other claims and litigation, which could be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. In addition, the outcome of any claims or litigation may be difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For further information regarding certain claims and litigation in which we are currently involved, see “Part I — Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. 21 Table of Contents Our business, our products and our distribution are subject to increasing regulation of content, consumer privacy, distribution and online hosting and delivery in the key territories in which we conduct business. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer. Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products and their distribution. For example, data protection laws in the United States and Europe impose various restrictions on our web sites. Those rules vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no geographical boundaries. Other countries, such as Germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the Internet that are stricter than current United States laws. In the United States, the federal and several state governments are continually considering content restrictions on products such as ours, as well as restrictions on distribution of such products. For example, recent legislation has been adopted in several states, and could be proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain games (e.g., violent games or those with “M (Mature)” or “AO (Adults Only)” ratings) to minors. Any one or more of these factors could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers, by limiting the size of the potential market for our products, and by requiring additional differentiation between products for different territories to address varying regulations. This additional product differentiation could be costly. If one or more of our titles were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our business could suffer. Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. However, in several cases, the hidden content or feature was included in the game by an employee who was not authorized to do so or by an outside developer without the knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some hidden content and features have contained profanity, graphic violence and sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. In a few cases, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (“ESRB”) has reacted to discoveries of hidden content and features by reviewing the rating that was originally assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game packaging and/or fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such hidden content by removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that their publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, consumers have reacted to the revelation of hidden content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they’ve already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable material. We have implemented preventative measures designed to reduce the possibility of hidden, objectionable content from appearing in the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventative measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we published were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, the ESRB could demand that we recall a game and change its packaging to reflect a revised rating, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. This could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. If we ship defective products, our operating results could suffer. Products such as ours are extremely complex software programs, and are difficult to develop, manufacture and distribute. We have quality controls in place to detect defects in the software, media and packaging of our products before they are released. Nonetheless, these quality controls are subject to human error, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. Therefore, these quality controls and preventative measures may not be effective in detecting defects in our products before they have been reproduced and released into the marketplace. In such an event, we could be required to recall a product, or we may find it 22 Table of Contents necessary to voluntarily recall a product, and/or scrap defective inventory, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business. In addition, compensation-related changes in accounting requirements, as well as evolving legal and operational factors, could have a significant impact on our expenses and operating results. The market for technical, creative, marketing and other personnel essential to the development and marketing of our products and management of our businesses is extremely competitive. Our leading position within the interactive entertainment industry makes us a prime target for recruiting of executives and key creative talent. If we cannot successfully recruit and retain the employees we need, or replace key employees following their departure, our ability to develop and manage our businesses will be impaired. We annually review and evaluate with the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors the compensation and benefits that we offer our employees to ensure that we are able to attract and retain our talent. Within our regular review, we have considered recent changes in the accounting treatment of stock options, the competitive market for technical, creative, marketing and other personnel, and the evolving nature of job functions within our studios, marketing organizations and other areas of the business. Any changes we make to our compensation programs could result in increased expenses and have a significant impact on our operating results. Our platform licensors are our chief competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of and/or access to our video game products. If they do not approve our products, we will be unable to ship to our customers. Our agreements with hardware licensors (such as Sony for the PlayStation 2, Microsoft for the Xbox and Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube) typically give significant control to the licensor over the approval and manufacturing of our products, which could, in certain circumstances, leave us unable to get our products approved, manufactured and shipped to customers. These hardware licensors are also our chief competitors. In most events, control of the approval and manufacturing process by the platform licensors increases both our manufacturing lead times and costs as compared to those we can achieve independently. While we believe that our relationships with our hardware licensors are currently good, the potential for these licensors to delay or refuse to approve or manufacture our products exists. Such occurrences would harm our business and our financial performance. We also require compatibility code and the consent of Microsoft and Sony in order to include online capabilities in our products for their respective platforms. As online capabilities for video game platforms become more significant, Microsoft and Sony could restrict our ability to provide online capabilities for our console platform products. If Microsoft or Sony refused to approve our products with online capabilities or significantly impacted the financial terms on which these services are offered to our customers, our business could be harmed. Our international net revenue is subject to currency fluctuations. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, international net revenue comprised 46 percent of our total net revenue. We expect foreign sales to continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenue. Such sales may be subject to unexpected regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers. Additionally, foreign sales are primarily made in local currencies, which may fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. While we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate some foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities (primarily certain intercompany receivables and payables) and, from time to time, foreign currency option contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions (primarily related to a portion of the revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currency generated by our operational subsidiaries), our results of operations, including our reported net revenue and net income, and financial condition would be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the Euro, British pound sterling and Canadian dollar. 23 Table of Contents Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also required to estimate what our taxes will be in the future. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process and the applicable law are inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in our business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws as well as other factors. Further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income could be materially affected. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our consolidated income. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income than higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Changes in our worldwide operating structure could have adverse tax consequences. As we expand our international operations and implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of changing tax laws, expiring rulings, acquisitions and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements, our tax expense could increase. For example, in the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006, we incurred additional income taxes resulting from certain intercompany transactions. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we repatriated $375 million under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. As a result, we recorded an additional one-time tax expense in fiscal 2006 of $17 million. Beginning in fiscal year 2007, we will recognize expense for stock-based compensation related to our employee equity compensation and employee stock purchase programs. The recognition of this expense will significantly lower our reported net income (or increase our reported net loss). On April 2, 2006, the first day of our current fiscal year, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS No. 123R”), “Share-Based Payment”, which requires us to recognize compensation expense for all stock-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, beginning with our first quarter of fiscal 2007, our operating results will contain a charge for stock-based compensation related to the equity-based compensation we provide to our employees, as well as stock purchases under our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. This expense will be in addition to the stock-based compensation expense we have recognized in prior periods related to restricted stock unit grants, acquisitions and other grants. The stock-based compensation charges we incur will depend on the number of equity-based awards we grant, the number of shares of common stock we sell under our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as well as a number of estimates and variables such as estimated forfeiture rates, the trading price and volatility of our common stock, the expected term of our options, and interest rates. As a result, our stock-based compensation charges can vary significantly from period to period. Going forward, our adoption of SFAS No. 123R will significantly lower our reported net income 24 Table of Contents (or increase our reported net loss), which could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the review of accounting policies by the SEC and national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of accounting policy changes may accelerate. For example, accounting policies affecting software revenue recognition have been the subject of frequent interpretations, which could significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products. In addition, the rules for tax accounting are in the process of being changed. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue and taxes, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. It is likely that, as the industry transitions to the next generation of consoles, a more significant portion of our business could be generated through online services and, as a result, we would recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than up front and all at once. The majority of our sales are made to a relatively small number of key customers. If these customers reduce their purchases of our products or become unable to pay for them, our business could be harmed. Over 70 percent of our U.S. sales were made to five key customers during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. In Europe, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 32 percent of our sales in that territory during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Worldwide, we had direct sales to one customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which represented approximately 13 percent of total net revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. In addition, we believe it likely that, had GameStop Corp.’s acquisition of Electronics Boutique Holdings Corp. occurred on April 1, 2005, the combined company would have represented greater than 10 percent of total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Though our products are available to consumers through a variety of retailers, the concentration of our sales in one, or a few, large customers could lead to a short-term disruption in our sales if one or more of these customers significantly reduced their purchases or ceased to carry our products, and could make us more vulnerable to collection risk if one or more of these large customers became unable to pay for our products. Additionally, our receivables from these large customers increase significantly in the December quarter as they stock up for the holiday selling season. Also, having such a large portion of our total net revenue concentrated in a few customers reduces our negotiating leverage with these customers. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our investors and other negative consequences. We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including (i) acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets, and (ii) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses (for example, online and mobile games). Any of these strategic transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Although we regularly search for opportunities to engage in strategic transactions, we may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or investments or an acquisition or investment may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company or business, or successfully exploiting acquired intellectual property or other assets, could divert a significant amount of our management’s time and focus and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Additional risks we face include: • The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies, • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization, 25 Table of Contents • Retaining key employees from the businesses we acquire, • The need to integrate an acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and • To the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the United States, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Future acquisitions and investments could involve the issuance of our equity securities, potentially diluting our existing stockholders, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased expenses, any of which could harm our financial condition. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. Our products are subject to the threat of piracy by a variety of organizations and individuals. If we are not successful in combating and preventing piracy, our sales and profitability could be harmed significantly. In many countries around the world, more pirated copies of our products are sold than legitimate copies. Though we believe piracy has not had a material impact on our operating results to date, highly organized pirate operations have been expanding globally. In addition, the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent the protection measures we use in our products, the availability of broadband access to the Internet, the ability to download pirated copies of our games from various Internet sites, and the widespread proliferation of Internet cafes using pirated copies of our products, all have contributed to ongoing and expanding piracy. Though we take steps to make the unauthorized copying and distribution of our products more difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which our games are played, neither our efforts nor those of the console manufacturers may be successful in controlling the piracy of our products. This could have a negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us (including those discussed in the risk factors above as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material), to changes in securities analysts’ earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below the expectations of analysts and investors, to factors affecting the computer, software, Internet, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 