RISK FACTORS continued of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. o The Corporation may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Corporation has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation's Board of Directors. Additionally, due to our participation in the CPP, we may not increase our dividend for three years from the date of the Agreement without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, unless the preferred shares sold to the U.S. Treasury have been redeemed in whole or transferred to a third party which is not an affiliate of the Corporation. o The Corporation's stock price can be volatile. The Corporation's stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the Corporation's quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Corporation; new technology used or services offered by the Corporation's competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry, and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could also cause the Corporation's stock price to decrease, regardless of the Corporation's operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 PART I: ITEM 2., ITEM 3. AND ITEM 4. 