ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsAs a financial services company, we are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include, but are not limited to:Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, and other factors beyond our control may also affect interest rates. If our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities in a declining interest rate environment, net interest income could be adversely impacted. Likewise, if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earnings assets in a rising interest rate environment, net interest income could be adversely impacted.Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or 9Table of Contentsimplementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation” included in Item 1. Business for a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory requirements applicable to First Commonwealth.We will be completing a transition to a new core processing system. If we are not able to complete the transition as planned, or unanticipated events occur during the transition, our operations, net income, or reputation could be adversely affected.We will be transitioning to a new core processing system during 2014. The core processing system is used to maintain customer and account records, reflect account transactions and activity, and support our customer relationship management systems for substantially all of our deposit and loan customers. First Commonwealth has assembled a team of officers and employees representing key business units and functional areas throughout the Company to plan and oversee the transition process. This team, working with the vendor for the core processing system and outside project management consultants, has developed a comprehensive work plan for completing the transition. Extensive pre-conversion testing of, and employee training in, processing routines and new core processing system operation will be conducted before FCB is transitioned to the new core processing system. If we are not able to complete the transition to the new core processing system as expected in accordance with the work plan, or if unanticipated events occur during or following the transition, FCB may not be able to timely process transactions for its customers, those customers may not be able to complete transactions in or affecting their accounts that are maintained on the core processing system, or FCB may not be able to perform contractual and other obligations to its customers or other parties. Should any of these consequences occur, First Commonwealth may incur additional expense in its financial and regulatory reporting, in processing or re-processing transactions, and FCB may not be able to meet customer expectations for transaction processing and customer service, customers may close their accounts with us, and we may incur liability under contractual or other arrangements with customers or other parties. Any of these events, should they occur, could have a material and adverse impact on the Company’s operations, net income, reputation or the trading price of First Commonwealth’s shares, as well as expose the Company to civil liability or regulatory sanctions.Declines in real estate values could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 62% of our loans were secured by real estate. These loans consist of residential real estate loans (approximately 30% of total loans), commercial real estate loans (approximately 30% of total loans) and real estate construction loans (approximately 2% of total loans). During the economic recession in 2008, declines in real estate values and weak demand for new construction, particularly outside of our core Pennsylvania market, caused deterioration in our loan portfolio and adversely impacted our financial condition and results of operations. Additional declines in real estate values, both within and outside of Pennsylvania, could adversely affect the value of the collateral for these loans, the ability of borrowers to make timely repayment of these loans and our ability to recoup the value of the collateral upon foreclosure, further impacting our earnings and financial condition.Our earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions.Our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance and the strength of the United States economy, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Our allowance for credit losses may be insufficient.All borrowers carry the potential to default and our remedies to recover may not fully satisfy money previously loaned. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is adequate to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for credit losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic conditions; and 10Table of Contentsunidentified losses in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for credit losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Acts of cyber-crime may compromise client and company information, disrupt access to our systems or result in loss of client or company assets.Our business is dependent upon the availability of technology, the Internet and telecommunication systems to enable financial transactions by clients, record and monitor transactions and transmit and receive data to and from clients and third parties. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by clients and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our technologies, systems, networks and our clients’ devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients’ confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of client assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our clients’ or other third parties’ business operations.We have a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure it will be fully realized.We had net deferred tax assets of $63.2 million as of December 31, 2013. We did not establish a valuation allowance against our federal net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2013 as we believe that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimated future taxable income based on management approved forecasts. This process required significant judgment by management about matters that are by nature uncertain. If future events differ from our current forecasts, we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We must evaluate whether any portion of our recorded goodwill is impaired. Impairment testing may result in a material, non-cash write-down of our goodwill assets and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.At December 31, 2013, goodwill represented approximately 3% of our total assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some of our businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets of those businesses. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least annually (or whenever events occur which may indicate possible impairment). Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, goodwill is considered impaired. Determining the fair value of our company requires a high degree of subjective management assumptions. Any changes in key assumptions about our business and its prospects, changes in market conditions or other externalities, for impairment testing purposes could result in a non-cash impairment charge and such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. The challenges of the current economic environment may adversely affect our earnings, the fair value of our assets and liabilities and our stock price, all of which may increase the risk of goodwill impairment.We have significant exposure to a downturn in the financial services industry due to our investments in trust preferred securities.As of December 31, 2013, we had single issuer trust preferred securities and trust preferred collateralized debt obligations with an aggregate book value of $48.7 million and an unrealized loss of approximately $18.2 million. These securities were issued by banks, bank holding companies and other financial services providers. Depending on the severe economic recession and its impact on the financial services industry, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on other investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If the credit quality of the securities in our investment portfolio deteriorates, we may also experience a loss in interest income from the suspension of either interest or dividend payments. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate or adverse actions by regulators could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the 11Table of Contentsability of FCB to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes.First Commonwealth relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenues.First Commonwealth is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on First Commonwealth’s common stock and interest and principal on First Commonwealth’s debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that FCB and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to First Commonwealth. In the event FCB is unable to pay dividends to First Commonwealth, First Commonwealth may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. The inability to receive dividends from FCB could have a material adverse effect on First Commonwealth’s business, financial condition and results of operations.Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability.We face substantial competition in originating loans and attracting deposits. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, better brand recognition, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. These competitors may offer more favorable pricing through lower interest rates on loans or higher interest rates on deposits, which could force us to match competitive rates and thereby reduce our net interest income.Negative publicity could damage our reputation.Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because we conduct all of our business under the “First Commonwealth” brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect our other businesses.An interruption to our information systems could adversely impact our operations.We rely upon our information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including deposit and loan operations, as well as internal management functions. These systems and our operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by our employees, security breaches, computer viruses, intentional attacks by third parties or other unexpected events. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems could adversely impact our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Pennsylvania law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party.Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, the corporate law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and state and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include, among other things, advance notice requirements for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, under Pennsylvania law, we are prohibited from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock.ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 12Table of Contents