ITEM 1A. Risk Factors (Continued) Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing various financial services may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans and attracting deposits. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, better brand recognition, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. These competitors may offer more favorable pricing through lower interest rates on loans or higher interest rates on deposits, which could force us to match competitive rates and thereby reduce our net interest income. An interruption to our information systems could adversely impact our operations. We rely upon our information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including deposit and loan operations, as well as internal management functions. These systems and our operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by our employees, security breaches, computer viruses, intentional attacks by third parties or other unexpected events. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems could adversely impact our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may undertake acquisitions in the future which could place heavy demands on our employees, disrupt our business and cause us to not realize expected earnings. Our growth has come primarily though the acquisition of other financial institutions, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions as opportunities arise, both within and outside our current market area. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions that we will undertake in future periods. We may face difficulty in integrating an acquired company which could prevent us from realizing expected revenue growth or cost savings or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Pennsylvania law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, the corporate law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and state and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include, among other things, advance notice requirements for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings. In addition, under Pennsylvania law, we are prohibited from engaging in a business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents FIRST COMMONWEALTH FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 