Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below is a discussion of certain risks affecting our business. The categorization of risks set forth below is meant to help you better understand the risks facing our business and is not intended to limit your consideration of the possible effects of these risks to the listed categories. Any adverse effects arising from the realization of any of the risks discussed, including our financial condition and results of operation, may, and likely will, adversely affect many aspects of our business. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors: 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to re-rent properties upon the expiration of our leases or if our tenants default or seek bankruptcy protection, our rental income will be reduced and we would incur additional costs. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from rental income paid by our tenants. From 2016 through 2018, leases with respect to 51 tenants that account for 14.3% of our 2016 contractual rental income, expire. If our tenants, and in particular, our significant tenants, (i) do not renew their leases upon the expiration of same, (ii) default on their obligations or (iii) seek rent relief, lease renegotiation or other accommodations, our revenues could decline. At the same time, we would remain responsible for the payment of the mortgage obligations with respect to the related properties and would become responsible for the operating expenses related to these properties, including, among other things, real estate taxes, maintenance and insurance. In addition, we may incur expenses in enforcing our rights as landlord. Even if we find replacement tenants or renegotiate leases with current tenants, the terms of the new or renegotiated leases, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, or the expense of the reconfiguration of a single tenancy property for use by multiple tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms and could reduce the amount of cash available to meet expenses and pay distributions.Since June 2015, a tenant at a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania property (i.e., Pathmark) and a tenant at a Greenwood Village, Colorado property (i.e.,Sports Authority) have sought bankruptcy protection. While we believe we will find replacement tenants for these properties, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in this regard. Approximately 53.8% of our 2016 contractual rental income is derived from tenants operating in the retail industry and the failure of those tenants to pay rent would significantly reduce our revenues. Approximately 53.8% of our 2016 contractual rental income is derived from retail tenants, including 10.2% and 4.2%, from tenants engaged in retail furniture (i.e., Haverty Furniture, which accounts for 8.0% of 2016 contractual rental income) and office supply activities (i.e., Office Depot, which accounts for 4.2% of 2016 contractual rental income), respectively. Various factors could cause our retail tenants to close their locations, including difficult economic conditions and corporate merger activity. Corporate merger activity, such as the proposed merger between Office Depot and Staples, may result in the closure of duplicate or geographically overlapping retail locations. Based on our analysis, three of our seven Office Depot properties will overlap geographically with Staples' properties—as a result, the company resulting from this proposed merger, if it is completed, may determine to close one or more of such locations. The failure of our retail tenants to meet their lease obligations, including rent payment obligations, due to difficult economic conditions, corporate merger activity and otherwise, may make it difficult for us to satisfy our operating and debt service requirements, make capital expenditures and make distributions to stockholders. Approximately 26.7% of our 2016 contractual rental income is derived from five tenants. The default, financial distress or failure of any of these tenants could significantly reduce our revenues. Haverty Furniture, LA Fitness, Northern Tool, Ferguson Enterprises and Office Depot account for approximately 8.0%, 5.4%, 4.8%, 4.3% and 4.2%, respectively, of our 2016 contractual rental income. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of any of these tenants could cause interruptions in the receipt of, or the loss of, a significant amount of rental income and would require us to pay operating expenses (including real estate taxes) currently paid by the tenant. This could also result in the vacancy of the property or properties occupied by the defaulting tenant, which would significantly reduce our rental revenues and net income until the re-rental of the property or properties, and could decrease the ultimate sale value of the property. 11 Table of Contents Declines in the value of our properties could result in impairment charges. If we are presented with indications of an impairment in the value of a particular property or group of properties, we will be required to evaluate any such property or properties. If we determine that any of our properties at which indicators of impairment exist have a fair market value below the net book value of such property, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge for the difference between the fair value and the book value during the quarter in which we make such determination; such impairment charges may then increase in subsequent quarters. This evaluation may lead us to write off any straight-line rent receivable balance recorded with respect to such property. In addition, we may incur losses from time to time if we dispose of properties for sales prices that are less than our book value. Competition that traditional retail tenants face from on-line retail sales could adversely affect our business. Our retail tenants face increasing competition from on-line retailers. On-line retailers may be able to provide customers with better pricing and the ease and comfort of shopping from their home or office. Internet sales have been obtaining an increasing percentage of retail sales over the past few years and this trend is expected to continue. The continued growth of on-line sales could decrease the need for traditional retail outlets and reduce retailers' space and property requirements. This could adversely impact our ability to rent space at our retail properties and increase competition for retail tenants thereby reducing the rent we would receive at these properties and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to refinance our mortgage loans at maturity, we may be forced to sell properties at disadvantageous terms, which would result in the loss of revenues and in a decline in the value of our portfolio. We had, as of December 31, 2015, $326.6 million in mortgage debt outstanding, all of which is non-recourse (subject to standard carve-outs) and our ratio of mortgage debt to total assets was 51.2%. Our joint ventures had $36.8 million in total mortgage indebtedness (all of which is non-recourse, subject to standard carve-outs). The risks associated with our mortgage debt and the mortgage debt of our joint ventures include the risk that cash flow from properties securing the indebtedness and our available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. Generally, only a relatively small portion of the principal of our mortgage indebtedness will be repaid prior to or at maturity and we do not plan to retain sufficient cash to repay such indebtedness at maturity. Accordingly, to meet these obligations if they cannot be refinanced at maturity, we will have to use funds available under our credit facility, if any, and our available cash and cash equivalents to pay our mortgage debt or seek to raise funds through the financing of unencumbered properties, sale of properties or the issuance of additional equity. From 2016 through 2020, approximately $103.8 million of our mortgage debt matures—specifically, $31.0 million in 2016, $23.3 million in 2017, $19.1 million in 2018, $17.4 million in 2019 and $13.0 million in 2020. With respect to our joint ventures, approximately $7.9 million of mortgage debt matures from 2016 through 2020—specifically, $866,000 in 2016, $912,000 in 2017, $4.3 million in 2018, $877,000 in 2019, and $911,000 in 2020. If we (or our joint ventures) are unsuccessful in refinancing or extending existing mortgage indebtedness or financing unencumbered properties, selling properties on favorable terms or raising additional equity, our cash flow (or the cash flow of a joint venture) will not be sufficient to repay all maturing mortgage debt when payments become due, and we (or a joint venture) may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms or convey properties secured by mortgages to the mortgagees, which would lower our revenues and the value of our portfolio. 12 Table of Contents We may find that the value of a property could be less than the mortgage secured by such property. We may also have to decide whether we should refinance or pay off a mortgage on a property at which the mortgage matures prior to lease expiration and the tenant may not renew the lease. In these types of situations, after evaluating various factors, including among other things, the tenant's competitive position in the applicable submarket, our and our tenant's estimates of its prospects, consideration of alternative uses and opportunities to re-purpose or re-let the property, we may seek to renegotiate the terms of the mortgage, or to the extent that the loan is non-recourse and the terms of the mortgage cannot be satisfactorily renegotiated, forfeit the property by conveying it to the mortgagee and writing off our investment. If our borrowings increase, the risk of default on our repayment obligations and our debt service requirements will also increase. The terms of our revolving credit facility limit our ability to incur indebtedness, including limiting the total indebtedness that we may incur to an amount equal to 70% of the value (as defined in the credit facility) of our properties. Increased leverage could result in increased risk of default on our payment obligations related to borrowings and in an increase in debt service requirements, which could reduce our net income and the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to our stockholders. If a significant number of our tenants default or fail to renew expiring leases, or we take impairment charges against our properties, a breach of our revolving credit facility could occur. Our revolving credit facility includes financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios and requirements. If our tenants default under their leases with us or fail to renew expiring leases, generally accepted accounting principles may require us to recognize impairment charges against our properties, and our financial position could be adversely affected causing us to be in breach of the financial covenants contained in our credit facility. Failure to meet interest and other payment obligations under our revolving credit facility or a breach by us of the covenants to maintain the financial ratios would place us in default under our credit facility, and, if the banks called a default and required us to repay the full amount outstanding under the credit facility, we might be required to rapidly dispose of our properties, which could have an adverse impact on the amounts we receive on such disposition. If we are unable to dispose of our properties in a timely fashion to the satisfaction of the banks, the banks could foreclose on that portion of our collateral pledged to the banks, which could result in the disposition of our properties at below market values. The disposition of our properties at below our carrying value would adversely affect our net income, reduce our stockholders' equity and adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Impairment charges against owned real estate may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Impairment charges are based on an evaluation of known risks and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of impairment charges is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of impairment charges of real estate is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions that are largely beyond our control. Any impairment charges that we may take may not be adequate to cover actual losses and we may need to take additional impairment charges in the future. Actual losses and additional impairment charges in the future could materially affect our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents If interest rates increase or credit markets tighten, it may be more difficult for us to secure financing, which may limit our ability to finance or refinance our real estate properties, reduce the number of properties we can acquire, and adversely affect your investment. Increases in interest rates or reduced access to credit markets may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance mortgage debt, limit the mortgage debt available on properties we wish to acquire and limit the properties we can acquire. Even in the event that we are able to secure mortgage debt on, or otherwise finance our real estate properties, due to increased costs associated with securing financing and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to refinance the entire outstanding loan balance or be subject to unfavorable terms (such as higher loan fees, interest rates and periodic payments) if we do refinance the loan balance. Either of these results could reduce income from those properties and reduce cash available for distribution, which may adversely affect the investment goals of our stockholders. Interest rates have been at historically low levels the past several years. If we are required to refinance mortgage debt that matures over the next several years at higher interest rates than such mortgage debt currently bears, the funds available for distribution to stockholders may be significantly reduced. The following table sets forth scheduled principal (excluding amortization) mortgage payments due on our properties as of December 31, 2015 and the weighted average interest rate thereon (dollars in thousands): Year Principal Payments Due Weighted Average Interest Rate 2016 $ 23,064 5.78 % 2017 14,282 5.41 2018 10,260 4.26 2019 8,332 4.31 2020 3,431 5.75 2021 and thereafter 155,690 4.51 Certain of our net leases and our ground leases require us to pay property related expenses that are not the obligations of our tenants. Under the terms of substantially all of our net leases, in addition to satisfying their rent obligations, our tenants are responsible for the payment of real estate taxes, insurance and ordinary maintenance and repairs. However, under the provisions of certain net and ground leases, we are required to pay some expenses, such as the costs of environmental liabilities, roof and structural repairs, insurance premiums, certain non-structural repairs and maintenance. If our properties incur significant expenses that must be paid by us under the terms of our leases, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected and the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to holders of our common stock may be reduced. Uninsured and underinsured losses may affect the revenues generated by, the value of, and the return from a property affected by a casualty or other claim. Substantially all of our tenants obtain, for our benefit, comprehensive insurance covering our properties in amounts that are intended to be sufficient to provide for the replacement of the improvements at each property. However, the amount of insurance coverage maintained for any property may not be sufficient to pay the full replacement cost of the improvements at the property following a casualty event. In addition, the rent loss coverage under the policy may not extend for the full period of time that a tenant may be entitled to a rent abatement as a result of, or that may be 14 Table of Contents required to complete restoration following, a casualty event. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as those arising from earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorist attacks, that may be uninsurable or that may not be economically insurable. Changes in zoning, building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also may make it impossible or impracticable for us to use insurance proceeds to replace damaged or destroyed improvements at a property. If restoration is not or cannot be completed to the extent, or within the period of time, specified in certain of our leases, the tenant may have the right to terminate the lease. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our revenues, the value of, or our return from, an affected property. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in real estate. These include adverse changes in economic conditions and local conditions such as changing demographics, retailing trends and traffic patterns, declines in the rental rates, changes in the supply and price of quality properties and the market supply and demand of competing properties, the impact of environmental laws, security concerns, prepayment penalties applicable under mortgage financings, changes in tax, zoning, building code, fire safety and other laws and regulations, the type of insurance coverage available in the market, and changes in the type, capacity and sophistication of building systems. Approximately 53.8% and 22.7% of our 2016 contractual rental income is from retail and industrial tenants, respectively, and we are vulnerable to economic declines that negatively impact these sectors of the economy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in leased real estate. These include the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, leasehold improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, covenants in certain retail leases that limit the types of tenants to which available space can be rented (which may limit demand or reduce the rents realized on re-renting), rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenant's quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and their values may decline. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Therefore, we will be limited in our ability to reconfigure our real estate portfolio in response to economic changes. We may encounter difficulty in disposing of properties when tenants vacate either at the expiration of the applicable lease or otherwise. If we decide to sell any of our properties, our ability to sell these properties and the prices we receive on their sale may be affected by many factors, including the number of potential buyers, the number of competing properties on the market and other market conditions, as well as whether the property is leased and if it is leased, the terms of the lease. As a result, we may be unable to sell our properties for an extended period of time without incurring a loss, which would adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents The concentration of our properties in certain regions may make our revenues and the value of our portfolio vulnerable to adverse changes in local economic conditions. Many of the properties we own are located in the same or a limited number of geographic regions. Approximately 42.6% of our 2016 contractual rental income will be derived from properties located in five states—Texas (11.3%), New York (9.5%), South Carolina (7.5%), Georgia (7.3%) and Pennsylvania (7.0%). At December 31, 2015, approximately 41.6% of the net book value of our real estate investments was located in five states—Texas (11.3%), South Carolina (9.1%), Pennsylvania (8.2%), Maryland (6.7%) and Georgia (6.3%). As a result, a decline in the economic conditions in these regions (including a decline in Texas as a result of challenges facing the oil industry) or in regions where our properties may be concentrated in the future, may have an adverse effect on the rental and occupancy rates for, and the property values of, these properties, which could lead to a reduction in our rental income and in the results of operations. We have been, and in the future will be, subject to significant competition and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. We have been, and in the future will be, subject to significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, many of which have greater financial resources than us, including publicly-traded REITs, non-traded REITs, insurance companies, commercial and investment banking firms, private institutional funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors. We may not be able to compete successfully for investments. If we pay higher prices for investments, our returns may be lower and the value of our assets may not increase or may decrease significantly below the amount we paid for such assets. If such events occur, we may experience lower returns on our investments. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year is distributed. This, along with other factors, will enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. If we reduce our dividend, the market value of our common stock may decline. The level of our common stock dividend is established by our board of directors from time to time based on a variety of factors, including our cash available for distribution, funds from operations and maintenance of our REIT status. Various factors could cause our board of directors to decrease our dividend level, including insufficient income to cover our dividends, tenant defaults or bankruptcies resulting in a material reduction in our funds from operations or a material loss resulting from an adverse change in the value of one or more of our properties. If our board of directors determines to reduce our common stock dividend, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our current and future investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by the lack of sole decision making authority, reliance on joint venture partners' financial condition, and any dispute that may arise between our joint venture partners and us. A number of properties in which we have an interest are owned through joint ventures (including both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures). Specifically, with respect to our (i) consolidated joint ventures, we own five properties that accounted for 4.5% of 2015 rental income with one joint venture partner and its affiliates (and we own one property with this same joint venture partner through an unconsolidated joint venture) and two properties that accounted for 3.4% of 2015 rental income with another joint venture partner and its affiliates, and (ii) unconsolidated joint ventures, we own three properties with one joint venture partner and its affiliates, which properties accounted in 2015 for $107,000 of equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures. We may continue to acquire properties through joint ventures and/or contribute some of our properties to joint ventures. Investments in joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that joint venture partners might file for bankruptcy protection, or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Further, joint venture partners may have conflicting business interests or goals, and as a result there is the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale and the timing thereof. Any disputes that may arise between joint venture partners and us may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with joint venture partners might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Compliance with environmental regulations and associated costs could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred in connection with contamination. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate a property, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow money using the property as collateral. In connection with our ownership, operation and management of real properties, we may be considered an owner or operator of the properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other related costs, including governmental fines and liability for injuries to persons and property, not only with respect to properties we own now or may acquire, but also with respect to properties we have owned in the past. We cannot provide any assurance that existing environmental studies with respect to any of our properties reveal all potential environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist, or may not exist in the future, as to any one or more of our properties. If a material environmental condition does in fact exist, or exists in the future, the remediation costs could have a material adverse impact upon our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act could be costly. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, all public accommodations must meet Federal requirements for access and use by disabled persons. A determination that our properties do not 17 Table of Contents comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act could result in liability for both governmental fines and damages. If we are required to make unanticipated major modifications to any of our properties to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, which are determined not to be the responsibility of our tenants, we could incur unanticipated expenses that could have an adverse impact upon our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our senior management and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success depends on our ability to retain them. We depend on the services of Matthew J. Gould, chairman of our board of directors, Fredric H. Gould, vice chairman of our board of directors, Patrick J. Callan, Jr., our president and chief executive officer, Lawrence G. Ricketts, Jr., our executive vice president and chief operating officer, Karen Dunleavy, our vice president—financial, and other members of our senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. Only three of our senior officers, Messrs. Callan and Ricketts, and Ms. Dunleavy, devote all of their business time to us. The remainder of our senior management provides services to us on a part-time, as-needed basis. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, the inability or failure of the members of senior management providing services to us on a part-time basis to devote sufficient time or attention to our activities or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could impair our ability to carry out our business and investment strategies. Our transactions with affiliated entities involve conflicts of interest. From time to time we have entered into transactions with persons and entities affiliated with us and with certain of our officers and directors. Such transactions involve a potential conflict of interest, and entail a risk that we could have obtained more favorable terms if we had entered into such transaction with an unaffiliated third party. Our policy for transactions with affiliates is to have these transactions approved by our audit committee. We entered into a compensation and services agreement with Majestic Property effective as of January 1, 2007. Majestic Property is wholly-owned by the vice-chairman of our board of directors and it provides compensation to certain of our part-time senior executive officers and other individuals performing services on our behalf. Pursuant to the compensation and services agreement, we pay an annual fee to Majestic Property which provides us with the services of all affiliated executive, administrative, legal, accounting and clerical personnel that we use on a part time basis, as well as property management services, property acquisition, sales and leasing and mortgage brokerage services. In 2015, pursuant to the compensation and services agreement, we paid Majestic Property a fee of $2.3 million and an additional $196,000 for our share of all direct office expenses, including rent, telephone, postage, computer services, and internet usage. We also obtain our property insurance in conjunction with Gould Investors L.P., our affiliate, and in 2015, reimbursed Gould Investors $520,000 for our share of the insurance premiums paid by Gould Investors. Gould Investors beneficially owns approximately 10.6% of our outstanding common stock and certain of our senior executive officers are also executive officers of the managing general partner of Gould Investors. See Note11 of our consolidated financial statements for information regarding equity awards to individuals performing services on our behalf pursuant to the compensation and services agreement. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We have diversified our cash and cash equivalents between several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. However, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation only insures accounts in amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. We currently have cash and cash equivalents deposited in certain financial institutions significantly in excess 18 Table of Contents of federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits over $250,000. The loss of our deposits may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain on information technology systems, certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, including tenants, vendors and employees. We also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. Risks Related to the REIT Industry Failure to qualify as a REIT could result in material adverse tax consequences and could significantly reduce cash available for distributions. We operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of technical and complex legal provisions for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to quality as a REIT, we will be subject to federal, certain additional state and local income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income for amounts distributed to stockholders. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. The additional tax would reduce significantly our net income and the cash available for distributions to stockholders. We are subject to certain distribution requirements that may result in our having to borrow funds at unfavorable rates. To obtain the favorable tax treatment associated with being a REIT, we generally are required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) each year. To the extent that we satisfy these distribution requirements, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income we will be subject to Federal corporate tax on our undistributed taxable income. As a result of differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses, and the inclusion of such income and the deduction of such expenses in arriving at taxable income, and the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves and the timing of required debt service (including amortization) payments, we may need to borrow funds in order to make the distributions necessary to retain the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT, even if we believe that then prevailing market conditions are not generally favorable for such borrowings. Such borrowings could reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to holders of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to maximize profits. In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Accordingly, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and real estate assets. Any investment in securities cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, other than a qualified REIT security. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of such portion of these securities in excess of these percentages within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. This requirement could cause us to dispose of assets for consideration that is less than their true value and could lead to an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 Table of Contents 