Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. Stockholders should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making any purchase or sale decisions regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results may be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock may decline, and stockholders may lose part or all of their investment in our common stock. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007, through all of 2008 and in 2009 to date in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing for some or all of 2009 and possibly beyond 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively impact our financial performance. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates with complete accuracy. Rate fluctuations are affected by many factors, including: · inflation; · recession; · a rise in unemployment; · tightening money supply; and · domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. We expect that we will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability. External factors, many of which we cannot control, may result in liquidity concerns for us. Liquidity risk is the potential that Union Center National Bank may be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. 12 Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, operating expenses, capital expenditures and dividend payments to shareholders. Liquidity is derived primarily from deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or an adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets continues to deteriorate. The extensive regulation and supervision to which we are subject impose substantial restrictions on our business. Center Bancorp, primarily through its principal subsidiary, Union Center National Bank, and certain non-bank subsidiaries, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Such laws are not designed to protect our shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Union Center National Bank is also subject to a number of federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. The United States Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes, especially for the TARP Capital Purchase Program (in which the Parent Corporation is a participant). Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares, as well as restrictions on our executive compensation. As a result of our participation in the Treasury's Capital Purchase Program, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our capital stock is subject to restrictions. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears in the payment of dividends on the Preferred Shares. Further, until the third anniversary of the investment or when all of the Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred, we are not permitted to increase the cash dividends on our common stock without the Treasury’s approval. Additionally, our ability to repurchase our shares of outstanding common stock is restricted. The Treasury’s consent generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase until the third anniversary of the investment by the Treasury unless all of the Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears in the payment of dividends on the Preferred Shares. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive effect of the warrants that we issued to the Treasury as part of the Capital Purchase Program, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms by which we participated in the Treasury's Capital Purchase Agreement and the terms of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, we and several of our senior employees are subject to substantial limitations on executive compensation and are subject to new corporate governance standards. Such requirements may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain senior officers and employees who are critical to the operation of our business. The documents that we executed with the Treasury when the Treasury purchased our Preferred Shares allow the Treasury to unilaterally change the terms of the Preferred Shares or impose additional requirements on the Corporation if there is a change in law. These changes or additional requirements could restrict our ability to conduct business, could subject us to additional cost and expense or could change the terms of the Preferred Shares to the detriment of our common shareholders. While it may be possible for us to redeem the Preferred Shares in the event that the Treasury imposes any changes or additional requirements that we believe are detrimental, there can be no assurances that our federal regulator will approve such redemption or that we will have the ability to implement such redemption. 13 Current levels of volatility in the capital markets are unprecedented and may adversely impact our operations and results. The capital markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility for more than a year. Such negative developments and disruptions have resulted in uncertainty in the financial market in general with the expectation of a continuing general economic downturn throughout 2009 and possibly beyond 2009. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations or our ability to access capital. We may incur impairments to goodwill. We review our goodwill at least annually. Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business, could indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. We operate in a competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if our analysis results in an impairment to its goodwill, we would be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price Union Center National Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations, which, to the extent that our holding company requires such dividends in the future, may affect our holding company’s ability to honor its obligations and pay dividends. As a holding company, we are a separate legal entity from Union Center National Bank and its subsidiaries and do not have significant operations of our own. We currently depend on Union Center National Bank’s cash and liquidity to pay our operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. We cannot assure you that in the future Union Center National Bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends and that we will not require dividends from Union Center National Bank to satisfy our obligations. Various statutes and regulations limit the availability of dividends from Union Center National Bank. It is possible, depending upon our and Union Center National Bank’s financial condition and other factors, that bank regulators could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by Union Center National Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event that Union Center National Bank is unable to pay dividends, we may not be able to service our obligations, as they become due, or pay dividends on our capital stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from Union Center National Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, Union Center National Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. If Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses; future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, the opinions of its regulators, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Union Center National Bank also considers the impact of economic events, the outcome of which is uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review Union Center National Bank’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses in relation to its current loan portfolio is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that Union Center National Bank will not need to increase its allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. 14 Union Center National Bank is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a significant worsening of the current economic environment, could hurt Union Center National Bank’s business. Union Center National Bank’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within New Jersey, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by Union Center National Bank may decline in value, in turn reducing Union Center National Bank’s clients’ borrowing power. Further deterioration in the real estate market, particularly in New Jersey, could hurt our business. As real estate values in New Jersey decline, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate is reduced, which increases the possibility that we may suffer losses on defaulted loans. Union Center National Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. Union Center National Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that Union Center National Bank’s underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans that it makes, Union Center National Bank may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in its allowance for loan losses. Union Center National Bank faces strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to the services that Union Center National Bank provides. Many competitors offer the same types of loans and banking services that Union Center National Bank offers or similar types of such services. These competitors include other national banks, savings associations, regional banks and other community banks. Union Center National Bank also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In this regard, Union Center National Bank’s competitors include other state and national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations, offer a broader suite of services and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Our inability to compete effectively would adversely affect our business. If we do not successfully integrate any entities that we may acquire in the future, the combined company may be adversely affected. The success of our enterprise after acquisitions that we may consummate in the future will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquired entities into our existing franchise, including, in certain circumstances, our ability to centralize certain administrative functions and eliminate unnecessary duplication of other functions. We may experience difficulties in accomplishing this integration or in effectively managing the combined company. Any actual cost savings or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate will depend on future expense levels and operating results, the timing of certain events and general industry, regulatory and business conditions. Many of these events will be beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurances that the integration of businesses that we may acquire will be successful. Our deposit insurance premium will be substantially higher in 2009, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including Union Center National Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at an adequate level. In light of current economic conditions, the FDIC has increased its assessment rates and recently adopted an interim rule imposing an emergency special assessment on the entire banking industry payable on September 30, 2009. The FDIC may further increase these rates and impose additional special assessments in the future. Declines in value may adversely impact our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $242.7 million in available for sale investment securities. We may be required to record impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the ability of Union Center National Bank to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios. 15 Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 