Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in Center Bancorp’s common stock involves risks. Stockholders should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making any purchase or sale decisions regarding Center Bancorp’s common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results may be harmed. In that case, the trading price of Center Bancorp’s common stock may decline, and stockholders may lose part or all of their investment in Center Bancorp’s common stock. We are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively impact our financial performance. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates with complete accuracy. Rate fluctuations are affected by many factors, including: · inflation; · recession; · a rise in unemployment; · tightening money supply; and · domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. We expect that we will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. At present, we are somewhat vulnerable to increases in interest rates because if rates increase significantly, our interest-earning assets may not reprice as rapidly as our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability. Union Center National Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent that our holding company requires such dividends in the future, may affect our holding company’s ability to honor its obligations and pay dividends. As a holding company, we are a separate legal entity from Union Center National Bank and its subsidiaries and do not have significant operations of our own. We currently depend on Union Center National Bank’s cash and liquidity to pay our operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. We cannot assure you that in the future Union Center National Bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends and that we will not require dividends from Union Center National Bank to satisfy our obligations. The availability of dividends from Union Center National Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon our and Union Center National Bank’s financial condition and other factors, that bank regulators could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by Union Center National Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event that Union Center National Bank is unable to pay dividends, we may not be able to service our obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from Union Center National Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, Union Center National Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. If Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 12 Back to Table of Contents Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, the opinions of its regulators, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Union Center National Bank also considers the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review Union Center National Bank’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses in relation to its current loan portfolio is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that Union Center National Bank will not need to increase its allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. Union Center National Bank is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown, could hurt Union Center National Bank’s business. Union Center National Bank’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within New Jersey, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by Union Center National Bank may decline in value, in turn reducing Union Center National Bank’s clients’ borrowing power. A downturn in the real estate market could hurt our business. If there is a significant decline in real estate values in New Jersey, the collateral for Union Center National Bank’s loans will provide less security. As a result, Union Center National Bank’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and Union Center National Bank would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Union Center National Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. Union Center National Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that Union Center National Bank’s underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans that it makes, Union Center National Bank may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in its allowance for loan losses. Union Center National Bank faces strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to the services that Union Center National Bank provides. Many competitors offer the same types of loans and banking services that Union Center National Bank offers or similar types of such services. These competitors include other national banks, savings associations, regional banks and other community banks. Union Center National Bank also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In this regard, Union Center National Bank’s competitors include other state and national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations, offer a broader suite of services and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Our inability to compete effectively would adversely affect our business. If we do not successfully integrate any entities that we may acquire in the future, the combined company may be adversely affected. The success of our enterprise after acquisitions that we may consummate in the future will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquired entities into our existing franchise, including, in certain circumstances, our 13 Back to Table of Contents ability to centralize certain administrative functions and eliminate unnecessary duplication of other functions. We may experience difficulties in accomplishing this integration or in effectively managing the combined company. Any actual cost savings or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate will depend on future expense levels and operating results, the timing of certain events and general industry, regulatory and business conditions. Many of these events will be beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurances that the integration of businesses that we may acquire will be successful. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 