Item 1A. Risk Factors. ------------ In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Business The financial failure of our tenants would likely cause significant reductions in our revenues, our equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures and in the value of our real estate portfolio. Based on 2007 contractual rental income, 88% of our rental revenues are generated from properties which are leased to single tenants. Accordingly, the financial failure or other default of a tenant in non-payment of rent or property related expenses or the termination of a lease could cause a significant reduction in our revenues. Additionally, approximately 51.4% of our rental revenues (excluding rental revenues from our joint ventures) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was derived from retail tenants and approximately 52.7% of our 2007 contractual rental income will be derived from retail tenants, including 20.2% from our tenants engaged in retail furniture operations. Weakening economic conditions (nationally and/or locally) could result in the financial failure, or other default, of a significant number of our tenants and the tenants of our joint ventures. In the event of a default by a tenant, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and sustain a loss of revenues and incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. We may also face liabilities arising from the tenant's actions or omissions that would reduce our revenues and the value of our portfolio. Also, if we are unable to re-rent a property when an existing lease terminates, we receive no revenues from such property and are required to pay taxes, insurance and other operating expenses during the vacancy period, and could as a result experience a decline in the value of the property. A significant portion of our 2006 revenues and our 2007 contractual rental income is derived from five tenants. The default, financial distress or failure of any of these tenants could significantly reduce our revenues. Haverty's Furniture Companies, Inc., Nutritional Products, Inc., New Flyer of America, Inc. and L-3 Communications Corp., accounted for approximately 10.7%, 6.2%, 5.4% and 5.2%, respectively, of our rental revenues (excluding rental revenues from our joint ventures) for the year ended December 31, 2006 and account for 11.5%, 5.2%, 4.2%, and 4.8%, respectively, of our 2007 contractual rental income. Ferguson Enterprises, Inc., a tenant at a property we acquired in December 2006, accounts for 5.3% of our 2007 contractual rental income. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of any of these tenants could cause interruptions in the receipt or the loss of a significant amount of rental revenues and result in the vacancy of the property or properties occupied by the defaulting tenant, which would significantly reduce our rental revenues and net income until the re-rental of the property or properties, and could decrease the ultimate sale value of the property. The inability to repay our indebtedness could reduce cash available for distributions and cause losses. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding approximately $228 million in long-term mortgage and loan indebtedness, all of which is non-recourse (subject to standard carve-outs). As of December 31, 2006, our ratio of mortgage and loan debt to total assets was approximately 54%. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, our joint ventures had approximately $19 million in total long-term mortgage indebtedness (all of which is non-recourse subject to standard carve-outs). The risks associated with our debt and the debt of our joint ventures include the risk that cash flow for the properties securing the mortgage indebtedness will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. Further, if a property or properties are mortgaged to collateralize payment of indebtedness and we or any of our joint ventures are unable to make mortgage payments on the secured indebtedness, the lender could foreclose upon the property or properties resulting in a loss of revenues to us and a decline in the value of our portfolio. Even with respect to our non-recourse indebtedness, the lender may have the right to recover deficiencies from us under certain circumstances, which could result in a reduction in the amount of cash available to us to meet expenses and to make distributions to our stockholders and in a deterioration of our financial condition. If we are unable to refinance our borrowings at maturity at favorable rates or otherwise raise funds, our net income may decline or we may be forced to sell properties on disadvantageous terms, which would result in the loss of revenues and in a decline in the value of our portfolio. Only a small portion of the principal of our mortgage indebtedness and the mortgage indebtedness of our joint ventures will be repaid prior to maturity. Neither we nor our joint ventures plan to retain sufficient cash to repay such indebtedness at maturity. Accordingly, in order to meet these obligations, we will have to use funds available under our credit line, if any, to refinance debt or seek to raise funds through the financing of unencumbered properties, sale of properties or the issuance of additional equity. Between January 2007 and December 31, 2011, we will need to refinance an aggregate of approximately $39.4 million of maturing debt, of which approximately $3.8 will have to be refinanced in 2007 and approximately $4.2 million will have to be refinanced in 2008. Our joint ventures do not have maturing mortgage debt until 2015. We can not provide any assurance that we (or our joint ventures) will be able to refinance this debt or arrange additional debt financing on unencumbered properties on terms as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness, or at all. If interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in interest rates higher than the interest rates currently being paid, our interest expense would increase, which would adversely affect our net income, financial condition and the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. If we (or our joint ventures) are not successful in refinancing existing indebtedness or financing unencumbered properties, selling properties on favorable terms or raising additional equity, our cash flow (or the cash flow of a joint venture) will not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt when payments become due, and we (or a joint venture) may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms, which would result in the loss of revenues and in a decline in the value of our portfolio. As of December 31, 2006 and March 1, 2007, we had no balance outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Our credit facility expires on March 31, 2007. We are in the process of amending our credit facility with our lending syndicate which will extend its maturity date from March 31, 2007 to March 31, 2010 and will reduce the interest rate from its current rate to the lower of LIBOR plus 2.15% or the bank's prime rate. All other material terms and conditions of current credit facility will remain the same. In the event the extension is not consummated, we will endeavor to secure a new credit facility. If we are able to secure a new credit facility (of which there is no assurance), it may be on terms less favorable than our current credit facility. Increased borrowings could result in increased risk of default on our repayment obligations and increased debt service requirements. Our governing documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. However, the terms of our credit facility with VNB New York Corp., Bank Leumi, USA, Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company and Israel Discount Bank of New York limit the total indebtedness that we may incur to an amount equal to approximately 70% of the value (as defined in the credit agreement) of our properties, in addition to other limitations in the credit facility on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Increased leverage could result in increased risk of default on our payment obligations related to borrowings and in an increase in debt service requirements, which could reduce our net income and the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are unable to re-rent properties upon the expiration of our leases, it could adversely affect our revenues and ability to make distributions, and could reduce the value of our portfolio. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from rental income paid by tenants at our properties. We cannot predict whether current tenants will renew their leases upon the expiration of their terms. In addition, we cannot predict whether current tenants will attempt to terminate their leases (including taking advantage of provisions of the federal bankruptcy laws), or whether defaults by tenants may result in termination of their leases prior to the expiration of their current terms. If tenants terminate or fail to renew their leases, or if leases terminate due to defaults or in the course of a bankruptcy proceeding, we may not be able to locate qualified replacement tenants and, as a result, we would lose a source of revenue while remaining responsible for the payment of our mortgage obligations and the expenses related to the properties, including real estate taxes and insurance. Even if tenants decide to renew their leases or we find replacement tenants, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, or the expense of reconfiguration of a single tenancy property for use by multiple tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms and could reduce the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to holders of our common stock. We are required by certain of our net lease agreements to pay property related expenses that are not the obligations of our tenants. Under the terms of substantially all of our net lease agreements, in addition to satisfying their rent obligations, our tenants are responsible for the payment of real estate taxes, insurance and ordinary maintenance and repairs. However, in the case of certain leases, we may pay some expenses, such as the costs of environmental liabilities, roof and structural repairs, insurance and certain non-structural repairs and repairs and maintenance. If our properties incur significant expenses that must be paid by us under the terms of our lease agreements, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected and the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to holders of our common stock may be reduced. Uninsured and underinsured losses may affect the revenues generated by, the value of, and the return from, a property affected by a casualty or other claim. Substantially all of our tenants obtain, for our benefit, comprehensive insurance covering our properties in amounts that are intended to be sufficient to provide for the replacement of the improvements at each property. However, the amount of insurance coverage maintained for any property may not be sufficient to pay the full replacement cost of the improvements at the property following a casualty event. In addition, the rent loss coverage under the policy may not extend for the full period of time that a tenant may be entitled to a rent abatement as a result of, or that may be required to complete restoration following, a casualty event. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as those arising from earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorist attacks, that may be uninsurable or that may not be economically insurable. Changes in zoning, building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also may make it impossible or impracticable for us to use insurance proceeds to replace damaged or destroyed improvements at a property. If restoration is not or cannot be completed to the extent, or within the period of time specified in certain of our leases, the tenant may have the right to terminate the lease. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our revenues, or the value of, or our return from, an affected property. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in real estate. These include adverse changes in economic conditions and local conditions such as changing demographics, retailing trends and traffic patterns, declines in the rental rates, changes in the supply and price of quality properties and the market supply and demand of competing properties, the impact of environmental laws, security concerns, prepayment penalties applicable under mortgage financings, changes in tax, zoning, building code, fire safety and other laws and regulations, the type of insurance coverages available in the market, and changes in the type, capacity and sophistication of building systems. In particular, approximately 52.7% of our 2007 contractual rental income will come from retail tenants and is therefore vulnerable to any economic decline that negatively impacts the retail sector of the economy. Any of these conditions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our revenues and the value of our portfolio are affected by a number of factors that affect investments in leased real estate generally. We are subject to the general risks of investing in leased real estate. These include the non-performance of lease obligations by tenants, improvements that will be costly or difficult to remove should it become necessary to re-rent the leased space for other uses, covenants in certain retail leases that limit the types of tenants to which available space can be rented (which may limit demand or reduce the rents realized on re-renting), rights of termination of leases due to events of casualty or condemnation affecting the leased space or the property or due to interruption of the tenant's quiet enjoyment of the leased premises, and obligations of a landlord to restore the leased premises or the property following events of casualty or condemnation. Any of these conditions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid and their values may decline. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Therefore, we will be limited in our ability to reconfigure our real estate portfolio in response to economic changes. We may encounter difficulty in disposing of properties when tenants vacate either at the expiration of the applicable lease or otherwise. If we decide to sell any of our properties, our ability to sell these properties and the prices we receive on their sale may be affected by many factors, including the number of potential buyers, the number of competing properties on the market and other market conditions, as well as whether the property is leased and if it is leased, the terms of the lease. As a result, we may be unable to sell our properties for an extended period of time without incurring a loss, which would adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The concentration of our properties in certain geographic areas may make our revenues and the value of our portfolio vulnerable to adverse changes in local economic conditions. We do not have specific limitations on the total percentage of our real estate properties that may be located in any one geographic area. Consequently, properties that we own may be located in the same or a limited number of geographic regions. Approximately 35% of our rental income (excluding our share of the rental income from our joint ventures) for the year ended December 31, 2006 were, and approximately 32% of our 2007 contractual rental income will be, derived from properties located in Texas and New York. As a result, a decline in the economic conditions in these geographic regions, or in geographic regions where our properties may be concentrated in the future, may have an adverse effect on the rental and occupancy rates for, and the property values of, these properties, which could lead to a reduction in our rental income and in the results of operations. Our inability to control our joint ventures or our tenancy in common arrangement could result in diversion of time and effort by our management and the inability to achieve the goals of the joint venture or the tenancy in common arrangement. We presently are a venturer in seven joint ventures which own six properties and we own 50% of another property as tenant in common with a group of investors pursuant to a tenancy in common agreement. At December 31, 2006, our investment in unconsolidated joint ventures was approximately $7 million and the tenancy in common interest represents a net investment of approximately $531,000 by us. These investments may involve risks not otherwise present in investments made solely by us, including that our co-investors may have different interests or goals than we do, or that our co-investors may not be able or willing to take an action that we desire. Disagreements with or among our co-investors could result in substantial diversion of time and effort by our management team and the inability of the joint venture or the tenancy in common to successfully operate, finance, lease or sell properties as intended by our joint venture agreements or tenancy in common agreement. In addition, we may invest a significant amount of our funds into joint ventures which ultimately may not be profitable as a result of disagreements with or among our co-investors. Competition in the real estate business is intense and could reduce our revenues and harm our business. We compete for real estate investments with all types of investors, including domestic and foreign corporations and real estate companies, 1031 exchange buyers, financial institutions, insurance companies, pension funds, investment funds, other REITs and individuals. Many of these competitors have significant advantages over us, including a larger, more diverse group of properties and greater financial and other resources. We have recently experienced increased competition for the acquisition of net leased properties. Our failure to compete successfully with these competitors could result in our inability to identify and acquire valuable properties and to achieve our growth objectives. Compliance with environmental regulations and associated costs could adversely affect our liquidity. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred in connection with contamination. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate a property, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow money using the property as collateral. In connection with our ownership, operation and management of real properties, we may be considered an owner or operator of the properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other related costs, including governmental fines and liability for injuries to persons and property, not only with respect to properties we own now or may acquire, but also with respect to properties we have owned in the past. We cannot provide any assurance that existing environmental studies with respect to any of our properties reveal all potential environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist, or may not exist in the future, as to any one or more of our properties. If a material environmental condition does in fact exist, or exists in the future, it could have a material adverse impact upon our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our senior management and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success depends on our ability to retain them. We depend on the services of Fredric H. Gould, chairman of our board of directors and chief executive officer, Patrick J. Callan, Jr., our president, Lawrence G. Ricketts, Jr., our executive vice president, and other members of our senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. Only two of our senior officers, Messrs. Callan and Ricketts, devote substantially all of their business time to our company. The remainder of our senior management provide services to us on a part-time, as needed basis. As we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain qualified senior management and other key personnel, both on a full-time and part-time basis. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could impair our ability to carry out our business and investment strategies. We do not carry key man life insurance on members of our senior management. Our transactions with affiliated entities involve conflicts of interest. We have entered into a number of transactions with persons and entities affiliated with us and with certain of our officers and directors. In particular, during the year ended December 31, 2006, Majestic Property Management Corp., a company owned by Mr. Gould and in which certain of our executive officers are officers and from which they receive compensation, received from our joint ventures an aggregate of approximately $1.3 million as a commission in connection with the sale for an aggregate consideration of $136.7 million of eight movie theater properties owned by two of our joint ventures and $105,000 for management fees and construction supervisory fees. In addition, in 2006 we paid Majestic Property Management Corp. approximately $308,000 for mortgage brokerage fees, sales commissions, management fees and construction supervisory fees. Our policy is (i) to receive terms in transactions with affiliates that are at least as favorable to us as similar transactions we would enter into with unaffiliated persons and (ii) to have these transactions approved by our Audit Committee and by a majority of our board of directors, including a majority of our independent directors. Effective January 1, 2007, we entered into a compensation and services agreement with Majestic Property Management Corp. which provides for a continuation of the services we previously received under the shared services agreement, including executive, administrative, legal, accounting and clerical personnel, and customary property management services, property acquisition, sales and leasing counseling services and mortgage brokerage services and the elimination of any allocated expenses to us. In consideration thereof, we will pay an annual fee to Majestic Property Management Corp. In addition, the agreement provides for us to pay additional compensation to our chairman and for us to make a payment to Majestic for our share of all direct office expenses such as rent, telephone, postage, computer services, internet usage, etc. previously allocated to us under the shared services agreement. Any transactions with affiliated entities raise the potential that we may not receive terms as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities or that our executive officers might otherwise seek benefits for affiliated entities at our expense. An SEC investigation involving us has resulted in significant costs to us, may result in future costs to us and could adversely affect us. As previously disclosed in our public filings, we are currently the subject of a formal order of investigation by the SEC, pursuant to which the SEC served a subpoena on us requesting that we produce certain documents. Based upon the items requested in the subpoena and the examination by the SEC of one of our executive officers, we believe that the matters being investigated by the SEC focus on the (i) improper payments received by Jeffrey Fishman, our former president and chief executive officer, (ii) related party transactions between us and entities affiliated with us and with certain of our executive officers and directors, and (iii) compensation paid to certain of our executives by those affiliated entities. Our Audit Committee has conducted an investigation concerning these issues. Both we and the Audit Committee have fully cooperated and intend to continue to fully cooperate with the SEC investigation. However, there can be no assurance that the SEC will not take any action that could adversely affect us as a result of the matters investigated by it and by the Audit Committee. We have incurred significant legal fees in connection with the on-going SEC investigation and the substantially completed Audit Committee investigation, and could incur significant legal fees in the future in connection with the SEC investigation. Moreover, members of our senior management have devoted in the past and may need to devote a significant amount of time in the future to these matters, which could have the effect of reducing the time that they have to devote to the operation of our business. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act could be costly. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, all public accommodations must meet Federal requirements for access and use by disabled persons. A determination that our properties do not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act could result in liability for both governmental fines and damages. If we are required to make unanticipated major modifications to any of our properties to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, which are determined not to be the responsibility of our tenants, we could incur unanticipated expenses that could have an adverse impact upon our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to quality for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. Risks Related to the REIT Industry Failure to qualify as a REIT would result in material adverse tax consequences and would significantly reduce cash available for distributions. We believe that we operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of technical and complex legal provisions for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In addition, no assurance can be given that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to quality as a REIT, we will be subject to federal, certain additional state and local income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income for amounts distributed to stockholders. In addition, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. The additional tax would reduce significantly our net income and the cash available for distributions to stockholders. We are subject to certain distribution requirements that may result in our having to borrow funds at unfavorable rates. To obtain the favorable tax treatment associated with being a REIT, we generally are required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) each year. To the extent that we satisfy these distribution requirements, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income we will be subject to federal corporate tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. As a result of differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses, and the inclusion of such income and the deduction of such expenses in arriving at taxable income, and the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves and the timing of required debt service (including amortization) payments, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis in order to make the distributions necessary to retain the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT, even if we believe that then prevailing market conditions are not generally favorable for such borrowings. Such borrowings could reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to holders of our common stock. Compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to maximize profits. In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Accordingly, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. Any investment in securities cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, other than a qualified REIT security. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of such portion of these securities in excess of these percentages within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. This requirement could cause us to dispose of assets for consideration that is less than their true value and could lead to a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. ------------------------- None. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth information with respect to our executive officers: NAME AGE POSITION WITH THE COMPANY ---- --- ------------------------- Fredric H. Gould* 71 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Patrick J. Callan, Jr. 44 President and Director Jeffrey A. Gould* 41 Senior Vice President and Director Matthew J. Gould* 47 Senior Vice President and Director David W. Kalish 60 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Israel Rosenzweig 59 Senior Vice President Simeon Brinberg** 73 Senior Vice President Mark H. Lundy** 44 Senior Vice President and Secretary Lawrence G. Ricketts, Jr. 30 Executive Vice President Karen Dunleavy 48 Vice President, Financial and Treasurer * Matthew J. Gould and Jeffrey A. Gould are Fredric H. Gould's sons. ** Mark H. Lundy is Simeon Brinberg's son-in-law. Fredric H. Gould. Mr. Gould has served as Chairman of the Board of One Liberty Properties since 1989 and as Chief Executive Officer from December 1999 to December 2001, and from July 2005 to the present. He also served as our President from July 2005 to December 2005. Mr. Gould has served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of BRT Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust that focuses on mortgage lending, since 1984 and Chief Executive Officer of BRT Realty Trust from 1996 to December 2001. Since 1985, Mr. Gould has been an executive officer (currently Chairman of the Board) of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P., a limited partnership primarily engaged in the ownership and operation of real properties, and he serves as sole member of a limited liability company which is the other general partner of Gould Investors L.P. Mr. Gould is President of the advisor to BRT Realty Trust and a director of EastGroup Properties, Inc., a New York Stock Exchange listed real estate investment trust that focuses on ownership of industrial properties in major sunbelt markets throughout the United States. Patrick J. Callan, Jr. Mr. Callan has been President of One Liberty Properties since January 2006 and a Director since June 2002. Mr. Callan was Senior Vice President of First Washington Realty, Inc. from March 2004 to December 2005, and Vice President of Real Estate for Kimco Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust, from May 1998 to March 2004. Jeffrey A. Gould. Mr. Gould has been a Vice President of One Liberty Properties since 1989 and a Senior Vice President and Director since December 1999. He was President and Chief Operating Officer of BRT Realty Trust from March 1996 to December 2001 and has been President and Chief Executive Officer of BRT Realty Trust since January 2002. Mr. Gould has served as a Trustee of BRT Realty Trust since March 1997. He has also served as a Senior Vice President of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P. since 1996. Matthew J. Gould. Mr. Gould served as President and Chief Executive Officer of One Liberty Properties from 1989 to December 1999 and became a Senior Vice President and Director of One Liberty Properties in December 1999. He has served as President of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P. since 1996. He has been a Vice President of BRT Realty Trust since 1986, has served as a Trustee of BRT Realty Trust from March 2001 to March 2004 and since June 2004 and serves as a Vice President of the advisor to BRT Realty Trust. David W. Kalish. Mr. Kalish has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of One Liberty Properties since June 1990. Mr. Kalish has served as Senior Vice President, Finance of BRT Realty Trust since August 1998 and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P. since June 1990. Mr. Kalish is a certified public accountant. Israel Rosenzweig. Mr. Rosenzweig has been a Senior Vice President of One Liberty Properties since June 1997 and a Senior Vice President of BRT Realty Trust since March 1998. He has been a Vice President of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P. since May 1997 and President of GP Partners, Inc., a sub-advisor to a registered investment advisor, since 2000. Simeon Brinberg. Mr. Brinberg has served as a Senior Vice President of One Liberty Properties since 1989. He has been Secretary of BRT Realty Trust since 1983, a Senior Vice President of BRT Realty Trust since 1988 and a Vice President of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P. since 1988. Mr. Brinberg, is an attorney-at-law and a member of the bar of the State of New York. Mark H. Lundy. Mr. Lundy has served as the Secretary of One Liberty Properties since June 1993 and a Vice President since June 2000 (Senior Vice President since June 2006). Mr. Lundy has been a Vice President of BRT Realty Trust since April 1993 (Senior Vice President since March 2005) and a Vice President of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P. since July 1990. He is an attorney-at-law and a member of the bars of New York and the District of Columbia. Lawrence G. Ricketts, Jr. Mr. Ricketts has been an Vice President of One Liberty Properties since December 1999 (Executive Vice President since June 2006), and has been employed by One Liberty Properties, Inc. since January 1999. Karen Dunleavy. Ms. Dunleavy has been Vice President, Financial of One Liberty Properties since August 1994 and Treasurer since June 2006. She has served as Treasurer of the managing general partner of Gould Investors L.P. since 1986. Ms. Dunleavy is a certified public accountant. 