Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. Stockholders should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making any purchase or sale decisions regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results may be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock may decline, and stockholders may lose part or all of their investment in our common stock. We are subject to stringent capital requirements which could require us to seek capital at times when capital may be expensive or unavailable to us. We may at some point be required to raise additional capital to assure compliance with mandated capital ratios, including new capital requirements adopted by federal banking regulators in July 2013 and described under “Business-Supervision and Regulation-New Capital Rules,” and to support our continued growth. We will be required to meet new capital requirements beginning on January 1, 2015. In addition, beginning in 2016, banks and bank holding companies will be required to maintain a capital conservation buffer on top of minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the capital conservation buffer will be 2.5%. Banking institutions which do not maintain capital in excess of the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on the payment of dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Accordingly, if the Bank fails to maintain the applicable minimum capital ratios and the capital conservation buffer, distributions to the Parent Corporation may be prohibited or limited. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to comply with applicable capital requirements and to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired. Negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets in recent years may continue to adversely impact our operations and results. The general economic downturn that began in 2008 and continued for several years thereafter negatively impacted many financial institutions, including the Corporation. Loan portfolio performances deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, were negatively affected by the condition of the financial markets, as was our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to prior periods. While the United States Congress took actions to implement important safeguards, there remains a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · we potentially face increased regulation of our industry and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; · customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates; · the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans; · the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process; · the value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected; and 18 In addition, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states may default on their debt obligations have negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively impact our financial performance. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates with complete accuracy. Rate fluctuations are affected by many factors, including: · inflation; · recession; · a rise in unemployment; · tightening money supply; and · domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, among other things. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. We expect that we will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our investment securities are issued by U.S. government agencies and U.S. government sponsored entities. The Federal Reserve’s repeal of the prohibition against payment of interest on demand deposits may increase competition for such deposits and ultimately increase interest expense. A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. In July 2011, Regulation Q, which had prohibited the payment of interest on demand deposits by institutions that are member banks of the Federal Reserve System, was repealed. As a result, member banks and thrifts are now permitted to offer interest-bearing demand deposit accounts to commercial customers, which could result in increased competition from other financial institutions for these deposits and could result in an increase in our interest expense. External factors, many of which we cannot control, may result in liquidity concerns for us. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Bank may be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. 19 Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, operating expenses, capital expenditures and dividend payments to shareholders. Liquidity is derived primarily from deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to market factors or an adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Over the last several years, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in asset values and by a lack of liquidity. The liquidity issues have been particularly acute for regional and community banks, as many of the larger financial institutions have significantly curtailed their lending to regional and community banks to reduce their exposure to the risks of other banks. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders have reduced or even eliminated federal funds lines for their correspondent customers. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill obligations such as meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. The extensive regulation and supervision to which we are subject impose substantial restrictions on our business. Center Bancorp Inc., primarily through its principal subsidiary, Union Center National Bank, and certain non-bank subsidiaries, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Such laws are not designed to protect our shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. The Bank is also subject to a number of federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. The United States Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of volatility in the capital markets are unprecedented and may adversely impact our operations and results. The capital markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility for several years. Such negative developments and disruptions have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. If the capital markets are volatile, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations or our ability to access capital. 20 We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with particular borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries, a centralized credit administration department and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review department. However, we cannot assure you that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value. Commercial real estate and construction loans were $579.3 million, or approximately 60.3% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2013. Many of these loans are extended to small and medium-sized businesses. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Although many such loans are secured by real estate as a secondary form of collateral, continued adverse developments affecting real estate values in our market area could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may incur impairment to goodwill. We review our goodwill at least annually. Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business, could indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. We operate in a competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if our analysis results in an impairment to our goodwill, we would be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. Union Center National Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations, which, to the extent that our holding company requires such dividends in the future, may affect our holding company’s ability to honor its obligations and pay dividends. As a bank holding company, Center Bancorp, Inc. is a separate legal entity from Union Center National Bank and its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations. We currently depend on Union Center National Bank’s cash and liquidity to pay our operating expenses and to fund dividends to shareholders. We cannot assure you that in the future Union Center National Bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends and that we will not require dividends from Union Center National Bank to satisfy our obligations. Various statutes and regulations limit the availability of dividends from Union Center National Bank. It is possible, depending upon our and Union Center National Bank’s financial condition and other factors, that bank regulators could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by Union Center National Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event that Union Center National Bank is unable to pay dividends, we may not be able to service our obligations, as they become due, or pay dividends on our capital stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from Union Center National Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. In addition, as described under “Business-Supervision and Regulation-New Capital Rules,” beginning in 2016, banks and bank holding companies will be required to maintain a capital conservation buffer on top of minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the capital conservation buffer will be 2.5%. Banking institutions which do not maintain capital in excess of the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on the payment of dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Accordingly, if the Bank fails to maintain the applicable minimum capital ratios and the capital conservation buffer, distributions to the Parent Corporation may be prohibited or limited. 21 Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, Union Center National Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. If Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, the opinions of its regulators, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Union Center National Bank also considers the impact of economic events, the outcome of which is uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review Union Center National Bank’s loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that Union Center National Bank’s allowance for loan losses in relation to its current loan portfolio is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that Union Center National Bank will not need to increase its allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. Union Center National Bank is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a significant worsening of the current economic environment, could hurt Union Center National Bank’s business. Union Center National Bank’s business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within New Jersey, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by Union Center National Bank may decline in value, in turn reducing Union Center National Bank’s clients’ borrowing power, among other things. Deterioration in the real estate market, particularly in New Jersey, could hurt our business. If real estate values in New Jersey decline, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will likely be reduced, which increases the possibility that we may suffer losses on defaulted loans. Union Center National Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. Union Center National Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that Union Center National Bank’s underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans that it makes, Union Center National Bank may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in its allowance for loan losses. Union Center National Bank faces strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to the services that Union Center National Bank provides. Many competitors offer the same types of loans and banking services that Union Center National Bank offers or similar types of such services. These competitors include other national banks, savings associations, regional banks and other community banks. Union Center National Bank also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In this regard, Union Center National Bank’s competitors include other state and national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations, offer a broader suite of services and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Our inability to compete effectively may adversely affect our business. 22 If we pursue acquisitions, we may heighten the risks to our operations and financial condition. To the extent that we undertake acquisitions (including our pending business combination transaction with ConnectOne Bancorp) or new branch openings, we may experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management’s time and attention and general disruption to our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions and branch openings, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses involve similar risks to those commonly associated with branching, but may also involve additional risks, including: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire; and · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. We expect that other banking and financial service companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than us, will compete with us in acquiring other financial institutions if we pursue such acquisitions beyond the ConnectOne acquisition. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators will consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Further increases in FDIC premiums could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including Union Center National Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at an adequate level. In periods of economic difficulties, the FDIC may increase its assessment rates and impose special assessments. The FDIC may further increase these rates and impose additional special assessments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on future earnings. Declines in value may adversely impact our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $323.1 million in available for sale investment securities. We may be required to record impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information or investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the ability of Union Center National Bank to upstream dividends to the Parent Corporation, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios. 23 Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. We have a continuing need for technological change and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs, in addition to providing better service to customers. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we grow. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. A failure of the security measures we use could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act and future regulatory reforms required by such legislation could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most are and will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. While it is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us, we expect that at a minimum our operating and compliance costs will increase, and our interest expense could increase. If the combined company resulting from the Merger (the “combined company”) does not successfully integrate ConnectOne Bank and Union Center National Bank, or if the combined company does not successfully integrate any other banks that the combined company may acquire in the future, the combined company may be adversely affected. If the Merger of ConnectOne Bancorp into the Parent Corporation, and the merger of Union Center National Bank into ConnectOne Bank, are completed, it will be essential that management integrate the two entities’ cultures, business, operations and systems. If the combined company makes additional acquisitions in the future, the combined company will also need to integrate the acquired entities into its then existing business, operations and systems. The combined company may experience difficulties in accomplishing this integration or in effectively managing the combined company after the Merger, and after any future acquisition. Any actual cost savings or revenue enhancements that the combined company may anticipate from the Merger or from future acquisitions will depend on future expense levels and operating results, the timing of certain events and general industry, regulatory and business conditions. Many of these events will be beyond the combined company’s control, and we cannot assure you that if the Merger is consummated or if the combined company makes any additional acquisitions in the future, it will be successful in integrating those businesses. Failure to complete the Merger could severely disadvantage Center. In order to complete the Merger, ConnectOne and Center must each focus on meeting all merger conditions. If for any reason the merger does not occur, that failure could adversely affect Center’s business and could make it difficult for Center to attract other acquisition partners in the future. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 