Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our shares involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this Report. If any of the risks discussed in this Report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the price of our shares could decline significantly and you may lose all or a part of your investment. The risk factors described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our forward-looking statements in this Report are subject to the following risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors below. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have incurred losses recently that may adversely impact liquidity. We have experienced operating losses and cash outflows. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our net loss was $5,189,900. At December 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $779,630 and our working capital deficit was $3,874,415. We cannot be certain that Aspyra will become profitable and sustain profitability. If Aspyra does not become profitable and sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock will decline. The Company’s primary source of working capital has been generated from the private placements and borrowings. The Company’s results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 produced negative operating cash flow of $1,686,024. Any decline in sales, delays in implementations where payments are tied to delivery and/or performance of services or cancellations of contracts could have a negative effect on cash flow from operations and could in turn increase our liquidity problem. If sales are not as expected, the Company will make certain cost cutting measures beginning June 2009. We may require additional cash resources to sustain our business. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in incurring debt service obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. There can be no assurance that any additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 14 Any failure to successfully introduce future products into the market could adversely affect our business. The commercial success of future products depends upon their acceptance by the medical community. Our future product plans include capital-intensive clinical and diagnostic information systems. We believe that these products can significantly reduce labor costs, improve patient care and offer other distinctive benefits to the medical community. However, there is often market resistance to products that require significant capital expenditures or which eliminate jobs through automation. We can make no assurance that the market will accept our future products and systems, or those sales of our future products and systems will grow at the rates expected by our management. If we fail to meet changing demands of technology, we may not continue to be able to compete successfully with competitors. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends upon our ability to introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, enhance current product lines and respond to evolving client requirements. We have incurred, and we will need to continue to incur, significant research and development expenditures in future periods as we strive to remain competitive. Our failure to meet these demands could result in a loss of our market share and competitiveness and could harm our revenues and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees. Our future success and growth depend on the continued services of our key management and employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee could materially affect our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining them. There are a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, our industry. We do not have employment agreements with most of our key employees. However, we generally enter into agreements with our employees regarding patents, confidentiality and related matters. We do not maintain life insurance on our employees. Our loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or our inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on sales and our ability to maintain our technological edge. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to retain our key management and skilled personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. If we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. We rely on a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary information. However, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Third parties may copy aspects of our products or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently, including by designing around our patents. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the United States, and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. Any legal action that we may bring to protect proprietary information could be expensive and may distract management from day-to-day operations. Unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. 15 Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. From time to time, we have received claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others and may receive additional claims in the future. Any such claim, with or without merit, could: · be time consuming to defend; · result in costly litigation; · divert management’s time and attention from our business; · require us to stop selling, to delay shipping or to redesign our products; or · require us to pay monetary amounts as damages to our customers. In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. These third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. Also, these third parties may from time to time receive claims that they have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including patent and copyright infringement claims, which may affect our ability to continue licensing their software. Our inability to use any of this third party software could result in disruptions in our business, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. ASPYRA operates in a consolidating industry which creates barriers to market penetration. The healthcare information technology industry in recent years has been characterized by consolidation by both healthcare providers who are our customers and by those companies that we compete against. Large hospital chains and groups of affiliated hospitals prefer to negotiate comprehensive contracts for all of their system needs with larger vendors who offer broader product lines and services. The conveniences offered by these large vendors are administrative and financial incentives that we cannot offer our customers. Our products may be subject to government regulation in the future that could impair our operations. Our products could be subject to stringent government regulation in the United States and other countries in the future. Furthermore, we expect that the integration of our product and service offering will require us to comply with regulatory requirements and that we will devote significant time and resources to this effort. These regulatory processes can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Additionally, securing necessary clearances or approvals may require the submission of extensive data and other supporting information. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in fines, recall, total or partial suspension of distribution, withdrawal of existing product or our inability to integrate our service and product offerings. If any of these things occur, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. Changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. Federal and state legislative proposals are periodically introduced or proposed that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, nationally, at the state level or both. Future legislation, regulation or payment policies of Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance plans, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payers could adversely affect the demand for our current or future products and our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Moreover, healthcare legislation is an area of extensive and dynamic change, and we cannot predict future legislative changes in the healthcare field or their impact on our industry or our business. 16 We are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and the cost of complying with HIPAA may negatively impact our net income. Our business is substantially impacted by the requirements of HIPAA and our products must maintain the confidentiality of a patient’s medical records and information. These requirements also apply to most of our customers. We believe our products meet the standards of HIPAA and may require our customers to upgrade their systems, but our customers’ preoccupation with HIPAA may adversely impact sales of our products, and the costs of compliance with HIPAA could have an impact on our product margins and selling, general and administrative expenses incurred by us and could negatively impact our net income. Defective products or product failure may subject us to liability and could substantially increase our costs. Our products are used to gather information for professionals to make medical decisions, diagnosis, and treatment. Accordingly, the manufacture and sale of our products entails an inherent risk of product liability arising from an inaccurate, or allegedly inaccurate, test or procedure result. In the past, we have discovered errors and failures in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and have experienced delayed or lost revenues during the period required to correct these errors. Errors and failures in products released by us could result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position or claims by customers or others. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our sales, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and would adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to product liability claims as a result of any failure or errors in our products. If a customer is successful in proving its damages, it could prove expensive and time-consuming to defend against these claims, and we could be liable for the damages suffered by our customers and other related expenses, which could adversely affect our operating results. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage for up to $2 million per incident and up to an aggregate of $5 million per year. Although management believes this liability coverage is sufficient protection against future claims, there can be no assurance of the sufficiency of these policies. We have not received any indication that our insurance carrier will not renew our product liability insurance at or near current premiums; however, we cannot guarantee that this will continue to be the case. System or network failures could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of customers. We rely on our management information systems to operate our business and to track our operating results. Our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change. If we experience a significant system failure or if we are unable to modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, then our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected and could lead to a reduction in our sales, increase costs and a loss of customers. Our evaluation of internal controls and remediation of potential problems will be costly and time consuming and could expose weakness in our financial reporting. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls system to allow management to report on in the current year and determined our controls are effective. Factors outside of our control may adversely affect our operations and operating results. Our operations and operating results may be adversely affected by many different factors which are outside of our control, including: 17 · deterioration in economic conditions in any of the healthcare information technology industry, which could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services; · political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively; · budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and spending objectives; · earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in Calabasas, California, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide; · acts of war or terrorism; and · inadvertent errors. Any of these factors could result in a loss of revenues and/or higher expenses, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our international operations involve special risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results and require increased time and attention of our management. We expect to generate approximately 10% of our revenues from customers located outside of the United States in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. Our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: · potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; · imposition of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and employment restrictions; · enactment of additional regulations or restrictions on imports and exports; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability such as higher interest rates and inflation, which could make our products more expensive in those countries; · limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; · longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · difficulties in staffing, managing and operating our international operations; · difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; and · political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. A portion of the Company’s transactions outside of the United States are denominated in foreign currencies. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, our future operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Hedging foreign currency transaction exposures is complex and subject to uncertainty. We may be negatively affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales. 18 Changes to financial accounting standards and new exchange rules could make it more expensive to issue stock options to employees, which would increase compensation costs and may cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and various other bodies. A change in those policies could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. For example, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term shareholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with our Company. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123R that requires us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants. In addition, regulations implemented by the American Stock Exchange generally require shareholder approval for all stock option plans, which could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant stock options to employees. We may, as a result of these changes, incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock would be dilutive to our current shareholders and could adversely affect our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Increased sales of our common stock in the market after exercise of stock options or warrants could exert significant downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. On March 26, 2008 the Company completed a private placement of promissory notes and warrants pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with various accredited investors. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company issued secured promissory notes from the Company in the principal amount of $2,775,000. The notes are convertible into up to 5,427,273 shares of the Company’s Common Stock and have a maturity date of March 26, 2010 and bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum compounded on each July 15 and January 15. In April 2009, the note holders signed a waiver extending the maturity date of the convertible notes to August 26, 2010. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company issued warrants to purchase up to an additional 5,496,646 shares of Common Stock. As a result, assuming the conversion of all promissory notes and exercise of all the warrants, up to 10,923,919 shares of the Company’s Common Stock may be issued. On February 12, 2009 the Company entered into a private placement transaction with various accredited investors. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the investors purchased secured promissory notes from the Company in the principal amount of $1,000,000. The notes are convertible into up to 3,225,806 shares of the Company’s Common Stock and have a maturity date of March 26, 2010 and bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum compounded on each July 15 and January 15. In April 2009, the purchasers signed a waiver extending the maturity date of the convertible notes to August 26, 2010. Pursuant to the terms of the transaction, the Company issued warrants to purchase up to an additional 5,774,194 shares of Common Stock. In addition, the Company issued the placement agent warrants to purchase up to 129,032 shares of Common Stock. As a result, assuming the conversion of all promissory notes and exercise of all the warrants, up to 9,129,032 shares of the Company’s Common Stock may be issued. Such issuances if it were to occur, would be highly dilutive of existing shareholders and may, under certain conditions affect a change of control of the Company. 19 Our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and our stock price may continue to fluctuate significantly, and you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: · announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us, our competitors or our customers; · failure to achieve financial forecasts, either because expected sales do not occur or because they occur at lower prices or on terms that are less favorable to us; · rumors, announcements or press articles regarding changes in our management, organization, operations or prior financial statements; · changes in revenue and earnings estimates by securities analysts; · announcements of planned acquisitions by us or by our competitors; · announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors or our customers; · gain or loss of a significant customer; · inquiries by the SEC, American Stock Exchange, law enforcement or other regulatory bodies; and · acts of terrorism, the threat of war and economic slowdowns in general. The stock market has experienced extreme price volatility, which has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the stock prices of ASPYRA in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. The quarterly financial results of ASPYRA have fluctuated in the past, and the quarterly financial results of the combined company are likely to vary significantly in the future. A number of factors associated with the operation of our business may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including our ability to: · effectively align sales resources to meet customer needs and address market opportunities; · effectively respond to competitive pressures; and · effectively manage our operating expense levels. A number of factors associated with our industry and the markets for our products, many of which are outside our control, may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: · reduced demand for any of our products; · timing and amount of orders by customers and seasonality in the buying patterns of customers; 20 · cancellation, deferral or limitation of orders by customers; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and · weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions. Quarterly changes in our financial results could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly after the merger. If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our stock. You should not rely on the results of prior periods as predictors of our future performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. Item 