Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them occur, could adversely affect our business, our financial condition and our results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report and the matters described in our “Forward-Looking Statements” section, as well as other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business, and an investment in our securities. Risks Related to our Industry and Business We are experiencing increased competition in our markets, and the failure to complete effectively could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are facing increased competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of new competitors, some of which have greater financial resources or lower production costs than we do. In order to compete effectively, we must retain our relationships with existing customers, establish relationships with new customers, continually develop new products and services designed to maintain our leadership technology position and penetrate new markets. Our failure to compete effectively may reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures may adversely impact our profitability. Cyclical economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or our growth rate could decline if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. Our products are sold in industries and end-user applications that have historically experienced periodic downturns, such as automotive, aerospace, paper, job shops and stone and tile. Cyclical weaknesses in the industries that we serve have led and could continue to lead to a reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any competitive pricing pressures, slowdown in capital investments or other downturn in these industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in any given period. Additionally, visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline in our customers’ markets would likely result in diminished demand for our products and services and would adversely affect our growth rate and profitability. If we are unable to complete the upgrades to our information technology systems that are currently in process, or our upgrades are unsuccessfully implemented, our future success may be negatively impacted. In order to maintain our leadership position in the market and efficiently process increased business volume, we are making a significant multi-year upgrade to our computer hardware, software and our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. Should we be unable to continue to fund this upgrade, or should the ERP system upgrade be unsuccessful or take longer to implement than anticipated, our ability to grow the business and our financial results could be adversely impacted. 9 Table of Contents International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In 2008, approximately 55% of our sales were derived outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S., we expect to continue to increase our sales outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets. In addition, two of our manufacturing operations and many of our suppliers are located outside the U.S. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including: • interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures; • import or export licensing requirements; • unexpected changes in laws or licensing and regulatory requirements, including negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto. Any of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and overall growth. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to unrecognized tax benefits, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our unrecognized tax benefits, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. We may not be able to retain or hire key personnel. To operate successfully and manage potential future growth, the Company must attract and retain qualified managerial, sales, technical and other personnel. We face competition for and cannot assure that we will be able to attract and retain such qualified personnel. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire and retain additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights, or our possible infringement on the proprietary rights of others, and related litigation could be time consuming and costly. We defend our intellectual property rights because unauthorized copying and sale of our proprietary equipment and consumables represents a potential loss of revenue to us. From time to time we also receive notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow 10 Table of Contents in the future, and responding to these claims may require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages. On November 18, 2004, Omax Corporation (“Omax”) filed suit against us alleging that our products infringe Omax’s patents. The suit also seeks to have a specific patent we hold declared invalid. Although the suit seeks damages of over $100 million, we believe Omax’s claims are without merit and we are contesting Omax’s allegations of infringement and also vigorously pursuing our claims against Omax with regard to our own patent. The outcome of this case is uncertain, and an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible. We have and could continue to spend substantial amounts contesting Omax’s claims and pursuing our own except as discussed in Note 9: Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. We have substantial assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate these items into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. In addition, we are a large buyer of steel, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of products. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates and commodity prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our business and financial results will suffer. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Some of our businesses purchase their requirements of certain of these items from sole or limited source suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. If we cannot develop technological advancements to our products through continued research and development, our financial results may be adversely affected. In order to maintain our position in the market, we need to continue investment in research and development to improve our products and technologies and introduce new products and technologies. If we are unable to make such investment, if our research and development efforts do not lead to new and/or improved products or technologies, or if we experience delays in the development or acceptance of new and/or improved products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Risk Related to our Industry and Business” and the following: • fluctuations in general economic conditions; • demand for ultrahigh-pressure pumps and ultrahigh-pressure systems generally; • fluctuations in the capital budgets of customers; and • development of superior products and services by our competitors. In the past, our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so in the future due to the factors above and others that are disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our operating results may in some future quarter fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, factors within our control, such as our ability to deliver equipment in a timely fashion, have caused our operating results to fluctuate in the past and may affect us similarly in the future. The factors listed above may affect both our quarter-to-quarter operating results as well as our long-term success. Given the fluctuations in our operating results, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance or to determine any trend in our performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause the market price of and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We have outstanding options, and restricted stock units that have the potential to dilute the return of our existing common shareholders and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have granted stock options to our employees and other individuals. At April 30, 2008, we had options outstanding to purchase 773,500 shares of our common stock, at exercise prices ranging from $5.71 to $12.13 per share. In addition, we have compensation plans with certain employees which granted those employees common stocks or restricted stock units totaling 296,773 shares in fiscal year 2008. Washington law and our charter documents may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Provisions in Washington law and in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and rights plan could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders. These provisions: • Establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • Authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors (without shareholder approval) to increase the number of outstanding shares (including shares with special voting rights), each of which could hinder a takeover attempt; • Provide for a Preferred Share Rights Purchase Plan or “poison pill;” • Impose restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. • Provide that directors may be removed only at a special meeting of shareholders and provide that only directors may call a special meeting; • Require the affirmative approval of a merger, share exchange or sale of substantially all of the Corporation’s assets by 2/3 of the Corporation’s shares entitled to vote; and • Provide for 60 day advance notification for shareholder proposals and nominations at shareholder meetings. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Pending Omax Transaction Our proposed merger with Omax Corporation (“Omax”) may fail to close or there could be substantial delays and costs before the merger is completed, including the loss of the $6 million consideration paid for the exclusive option to purchase Omax. On December 4, 2007, we entered into an option agreement that provides us with a period of exclusivity to negotiate the acquisition of Omax. The proposed transaction is subject to due diligence, the negotiation of a mutually acceptable definitive agreement and other customary closing conditions, including approval of the merger under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (the HSR Act”). On July 10, 2008, in connection with the pending merger with Omax referred to in Note 17, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) accepted an Agreement Containing Consent Order (the “proposed consent order”) that will remedy competitive concerns about the proposed transaction alleged in the FTC’s simultaneously issued Complaint. The proposed consent order is subject to a 30 day public notice and comment period, following which the FTC will decide whether to make it final. The Company is permitted to close the transaction prior to the expiration of the 30 day public notice and comment period; however, the Company does not anticipate that other closing conditions of the transaction will be satisfied prior to such time. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that a mutually acceptable definitive agreement will be negotiated and that all other closing conditions will be satisfied and that the Omax merger will be consummated. If the proposed merger with Omax is not closed, the continuation of the litigation could be time consuming and costly. If the proposed transaction is consummated, the patent litigation between the parties, Omax Corporation v. Flow International Corporation, United States District Court, Western Division at Seattle, Case No. CV04-2334, will be terminated without any additional amounts being paid in settlement. If the transaction is not closed, the litigation may continue which could be time consuming and costly. Our proposed merger with Omax may result in dilution to our existing shareholders. Under the Option Agreement, 3.75 million shares of common stock (or if the Closing Share Price is less than $9.00, such greater number as is necessary so that the value of the shares delivered is $33.75 million) would be issued at closing and up to 1,733,334 additional shares of common stock based on the Average Share Price for the six months ending twenty four months after closing. The additional shares to be delivered will be determined using a sliding scale as follows: if the average share price is $13 or less, no additional shares are delivered; if the average share price is $15 or more, 1,733,334 shares will be delivered; provided that if the Closing Share Price at the time the transaction is consummated is less than $9.00, the additional shares will be reduced by the equivalent shares attributable to the difference between $9.00 and the Closing Share Price. These additional shares issued in connection with the merger with Omax will have a dilutive impact on the number of our shares outstanding and may also adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. If more than 3.75 million shares are to be delivered, the Company has the right to deliver cash in the amount of the value of the shares rather than shares. We may not be able to successfully integrate Omax into our existing business. If the transaction is closed, there will be a significant risk relating to integration. The integration of Omax will be a time consuming and expensive process and may disrupt the combined company’s operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If this integration effort is not successful, the combined company’s results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customers could cancel existing orders or choose not to place new ones. In addition, the combined company may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits of the merger. If the anticipated benefits of the merger are not realized or do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of the Company’s common stock may decline. 13 Table of Contents We may assume unknown liabilities in the merger with Omax that could harm our financial condition and operating results. The due diligence that we have and will be able to perform before the proposed merger may be limited and may not be sufficient to identify before the closing all possible breaches of representations and warranties. As a result, we may, among other things, assume unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or uncovered during pre-merger due diligence. These obligations and liabilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our rights to indemnification for breaches of representations and warranties will, except in certain limited circumstances, be limited to a maximum of $13.2 million. We may incur significant indebtedness following the merger, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In order to finance a portion of the cash consideration, we will incur additional indebtedness. As a result of this indebtedness, demands on our cash resources will increase, which could affect our liquidity and, therefore, could have important effects on an investment in our common stock. For example, while the impact of this increased indebtedness is expected to be addressed by the combined cash flows of the Company and Omax, the increased level of indebtedness could nonetheless create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments that were received from the SEC staff relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 