Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to certain risks and events that, if they occur, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report and the matters described in our “Forward-Looking Statements” section, as well as other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business, and an investment in our securities. Risks Related to our Business Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected by changes in product mix or pricing. Our overall profitability may not meet expectations if our products, customers or geographic mix are substantially different than anticipated. Our profit margins vary among products, customers and geographic markets. Consequently, if our mix of any of these is substantially different from what is anticipated in any particular period, our profitability may be lower than anticipated. Failure to effectively manage our indirect sales channel could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In order to expand sales and capture a leading market share globally, we have recently focused on establishing an indirect sales channel, through distributors and sales agents, to augment our existing direct sales force. Our success in integrating this indirect sales channel into our business will be impacted by our ability to train and manage new and existing relationships with distributors and sales agents. If we are not able to effectively train and manage our indirect sales channel, we may not be able to achieve our operating results and this could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have substantial assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate these items into U.S. dollars 9 Table of Contents at the applicable exchange rates. We are therefore exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar. Of these, the most significant is currently the Euro. A portion of our sales to our customers and operating costs in Europe are denominated in Euro creating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, certain of our foreign subsidiaries make sales denominated in U.S. Dollars which expose them to foreign currency transaction gains and losses. In addition, we are a large buyer of steel, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of products. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates and commodity prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis or fail to effectively adapt out cost structure to changing market conditions our business and financial results will suffer. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Some of our business units purchase these items from sole or limited source suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. Disasters and business interruptions such as earthquakes, flooding, fire, and electrical failure affecting our operating activities and major facilities could materially and adversely affect our operations, our operating results and financial condition. In particular, our facility in Kent, Washington, which is our headquarters and the primary manufacturing facility for our ultra-high pressure pumps, is in close proximity to the Green River which currently has an increased risk of flooding over the next 3 to 5 years because of the structural integrity of a dam on the river. If such flooding occurs, it could be extremely disruptive to our business and could materially and adversely affect our operations, operating results and financial condition. We have developed a disaster recovery plan to mitigate the negative results of such an occurrence, however, the implementation and execution of such plans may not be adequate. The recent economic recession and its impact on the credit markets could adversely affect our results of operations and access to capital. The economic recession and the impact that it has had on the financial and credit markets has resulted in a period of turmoil that has included the failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States government. While it is difficult to predict the lingering effects of these events, they may impair our customers’ ability to borrow money or raise capital for their operations. Volatile market conditions could: • adversely affect our ability to access credit markets or raise capital on terms acceptable to us; • limit our capital expenditures for repair or replacement of existing facilities or equipment; • adversely affect our ability to be in compliance with covenants under existing credit agreements; • have an adverse effect on our customers and suppliers and their ability to purchase our products; and • reduce our ability to take advantage of growth and expansion opportunities. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to comply with the financial tests or ratios required to comply with our covenant requirements under our Line of Credit which may impact our ability to draw funds and may result in the acceleration of the maturity of, and/or the termination of the Line of Credit. Our Line of Credit agreement requires us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and restrict our ability to: • draw down on our existing line of credit or incur more debt; • make certain investments and payments; • fund additional letters of credit; • pay cash dividends; and • transfer or sell assets. Our ability to comply with these covenants is subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain the financial tests and ratios required by this indebtedness. Any failure by us to comply with and maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to a substantial portion of our debt which would result in the acceleration of the maturity and/or the termination of our credit facility. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our sole discretion could harm our business. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital and/or operating needs. In September 2009, we completed an underwritten public offering of 8,998,750 common shares at an offering price of $2.10 per share, generating net proceeds of approximately $17.2 million after deducting underwriting commissions and estimated offering expenses. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or sale of equity to achieve our current business strategy in future periods. The financing we need may not be available when needed. Even if this financing is available, it may be on terms that we deem unfavorable or are materially adverse to our shareholders’ interests, and may involve substantial dilution to our shareholders. Our inability to obtain financing will inhibit our ability to implement our development strategy, and as a result, could require us to diminish or suspend our development strategy and possibly cease certain of our operations. If we require additional funds and are unable to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, we could be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate certain product development programs and/or our capital projects. In addition, such inability to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms could have a negative effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, sell assets or cease operations, any of which could put our shareholders’ investment dollars at significant risk. If we fail to technologically advance our products through continued research and development, our financial results may be adversely affected. In order to maintain our position in the market, we need to continue investment in research and development to improve our products and technologies and to introduce new products and technologies. If we are unable to make such investment, if our research and development efforts do not lead to new and/or improved products or technologies, or if we experience delays in the development or acceptance of new and/or improved products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or third parties might assert that our technologies infringe on their intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to protect our intellectual property, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties, certain of whom have filed lawsuits against us in the past, might assert that our technologies infringe their 11 Table of Contents proprietary rights. Any future related litigation to defend our intellectual property and/or defend ourselves from assertions of infringement could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and could adversely affect our business, whether or not we are ultimately successful. Changes in our income tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, accruals related to unrecognized tax benefits, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our unrecognized tax benefits, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require the Company to adjust the valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for realizability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between the future projected operating performance and our actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative available evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry back or carry forward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we may be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of April 30, 2010, we had approximately $24 million of net deferred tax assets. International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In fiscal year 2010, approximately 59% of our sales were derived outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S., we expect to continue to increase our sales outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets. In addition, some of our sales distribution offices and many of our suppliers are located outside the U.S. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including: • interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures; • import or export licensing requirements; • unexpected changes in laws or licensing and regulatory requirements, including negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings; 12 Table of Contents • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto. Any of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and overall growth. If we are unable to complete the upgrades to our information technology systems that are currently in process, or our upgrades are unsuccessfully implemented, our future success may be negatively impacted. In order to maintain our leadership position in the market and efficiently process increased business volume, we are making a significant multi-year upgrade to our computer hardware, software and our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. Should we be unable to continue to fund the completion of this upgrade in all our locations, or should the ERP system upgrade be unsuccessful or take longer to implement than anticipated, our ability to grow the business and our financial results could be adversely impacted. We may incur net losses in the future, and we may not be able to regain or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We incurred net losses during fiscal year 2010. We may continue to incur net losses in the future including losses from our operations, the impairment of long-lived assets and restructuring charges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to conduct our business profitably in the future. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. On June 22, 2010, the closing price of our common stock was $2.48. Our stock price could decline or be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the risks discussed in this section and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or our competitors’ operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, • capacity changes, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • our growth rate and our competitors’ growth rates; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our industry generally ,or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; and • changes in accounting principles. In addition, there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of our securities that is sometimes unrelated to our operating performance. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been the target of a hostile takeover or subject to involvement by activist shareholders. If litigation of this type is brought against us it, it could result in substantial costs and would divert management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified employees, including our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing, and corporate personnel. If we fail to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified employees, we may have difficulties in supporting our customers or expanding our 13 Table of Contents business. Realignments of resources, reductions in workforce, temporary reductions of wages and suspension of certain benefits in response to the economic downturn, and/or other operational decisions have created and could continue to create an unstable work environment that may have a negative effect on our ability to hire, retain and motivate employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees, all of whom, except our chief executive officer, are employed on an at-will basis. While none of our key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals may be disruptive to our business. There can be no assurance that any retention program we initiate will be successful at retaining employees, including key employees. We have unresolved claims with the purchaser of Avure. During fiscal year 2009, we were notified by the purchaser of our Avure Business (“Purchaser”), which we reported as a discontinued operation for the year ended April 30, 2006, that the Swedish tax authority was conducting an audit which includes periods during the time that we owned the subsidiary. Pursuant to our agreement with the Purchaser, we had made commitments to indemnify various liabilities and claims, including any tax matters when we owned the business. The Swedish tax authority concluded its audit and issued a final report in November 2009 asserting that Avure owes 19.5 million Swedish Krona in additional taxes, penalties and fines. In April 2010, we filed an appeal to contest the findings by the Swedish Tax Authority. While we intend to continue contesting the findings, the ultimate outcome of this matter is uncertain and an unfavorable outcome ranging from $0 to the assessed $1.2 million is reasonably possible. An equivalent of $1.2 million was accrued during the current fiscal year related to the periods during which we owned Avure. Risks Related to the Industries in Which We Operate Intense competition in our markets could prevent us from increasing distribution of our products in those markets or cause us to lose market share. We face competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of new competitors and alternative technologies such as lasers, saws, plasma, shears, routers, drills and abrasive blasting techniques. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, more developed infrastructures or more established relationships in the industry than we have. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, develop and expand their product offerings more rapidly, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, achieve greater economies of scale, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products than they do. Our failure to compete effectively may reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures may adversely impact our profitability. Cyclical economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or our growth rate could decline if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. Our products are sold in industries and end-user applications that have historically experienced periodic downturns, such as automotive, aerospace, paper, job shops and stone and tile. Cyclical weaknesses in the industries that we serve have led and could continue to lead to a reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any competitive pricing pressures, slowdown in capital investments or other downturn in these industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in any given period. Additionally, visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline in our customers’ markets would likely result in diminished demand for our products and services and would adversely affect our growth rate and profitability. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments that were received from the SEC staff relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as of April 30, 2010. 