Item 1A. Risk Factors Following are significant risks which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are experiencing significant growth in our markets, and if we are unable to respond, our business may be negatively impacted by loss of future sales to competitors. Interest in our products is growing rapidly and, in order to meet this demand we must continuously improve our efficiency and increase our capacity. We may need to change our processes or add or change personnel, equipment or facilities. If we are unable to successfully make these changes, we may not be able to sustain our growth rate and consequently lose market share. We are experiencing increased competition in our markets, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. There are an increasing number of waterjet competitors entering our markets. If these new competitors are successful or if we are unable to respond to this competition, we may lose market share, our growth rate may slow, or our margins may suffer which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. A significant portion of our new business has been derived from a few industries, and we could experience a reduction in the growth rate if conditions in one of those industries changed. Although we serve many different industries and market segments, a market slowdown in any of our main industry segments, a postponement of a major project, or a slowdown in the adoption of waterjet cutting in those industries could reduce revenue growth. A further decline in the domestic automotive industries may have an adverse effect on our financial results. A portion of our revenues are derived from the domestic automotive industries, which are currently experiencing a decline in demand. The continued softness in these industries may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Economic weakness and tightening of credit in our served markets may adversely affect our financial results. The products we sell are capital goods with individual system prices ranging from tens of thousands to several million dollars. Many of our customers depend on long term financing from a financial institution to purchase our equipment. Economic weakness in the capital goods market and/or a credit tightening by the banking industry could reduce our sales and accordingly affect our financial results. If we are unable to finalize the upgrades to our information technology systems that are currently in process, our future success may be negatively impacted. In order to maintain our leadership position in the market and efficiently process increased business volume, we are making an $11 million, multi-year upgrade to our computer hardware, software and our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. Should we be unable to continue to fund this upgrade, or should the ERP system upgrade be unsuccessful or take longer to implement than anticipated, our ability to grow the business and our financial results could be adversely impacted. 9 Table of Contents We may be subject to significant financial penalties if the registration statement for the resale of PIPE securities is not available for resales. In connection with a March 2005 Private Investment Public Equity transaction (“PIPE Transaction”) in which we sold $65 million of stock and warrants to investors, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (“RRA”). Under the RRA, we are required to keep a registration statement on Form S-1 for the resale of common stock issued in PIPE and pursuant to warrants issued in the PIPE (“PIPE Securities”) effective and available for resale of PIPE Securities. The obligation exists until the earlier of five years, two years after the exercise or retirement of the warrants, or the resale of all PIPE Securities. If the registration is unavailable for resales for the period specified in the RRA, we will be obligated to pay, on a monthly basis, penalties to purchasers of PIPE Securities who still hold PIPE Securities. As of the date of this filing, the monthly penalty would be approximately $400,000. The RRA originally provided that we would not have to pay penalties until the registration statement could not be used for resale for an aggregate total of 40 trading days. The registration statement became unavailable for use November 22, 2006. On January 24, 2007 (when the registration had not been available for resale for 40 trading days), the RRA was amended to increase the number of blackout days to 102. The post effective amendment filed on April 12, 2007 was declared effective by the SEC on April 18, 2007, leaving 2 trading days. We will be obligated to file additional post-effective amendments in the future to include updating information and to reflect “fundamental changes,” if any, that may occur. Depending on the timing of the filing of the post-effective amendments and how long it takes the SEC to declare such post-effective amendments effective, the remaining trading days may not be sufficient, and we may be liable for penalties. Changes in the tax and regulatory rules or requirements in the countries in which we operate could impact our operations. We have offices in 14 countries and have manufacturing facilities in three of those countries. Changes in the local tax or regulatory rules could reduce our ability to ship our products cross-border profitably or operate our local businesses cost effectively, which could adversely impact our financial results. We have experienced turnover in our Chief Executive Officer position in recent months and if we are not able to retain our newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Charles Brown, we may have difficulty implementing our business strategy. On February 2, 2007, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Stephen Light, announced his intention to retire from the Company effective upon the appointment of a successor Chief Executive Officer. On July 3, 2007 our Board of Directors appointed Mr. Charles Brown as our new Chief Executive Officer in anticipation of Mr. Light’s resignation effective upon the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K. Mr. Brown has not previously been affiliated with the Company and there is a risk that he may not be integrated effectively, or in a timely fashion, into the Company and accordingly the Company’s results of operation may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to retain the current members of our senior management team and other key personnel or to recruit additional key personnel, our future success may be negatively impacted. While we do not expect to lose any key management personnel in connection with the integration of our new Chief Executive Officer it is always possible that we will suffer such losses and encounter difficulties replacing these positions. We may also encounter difficulties in recruiting additional key personnel as our business grows. We may incur greater costs to attract replacement or additional personnel. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights, or our possible infringement on the proprietary rights of others, and related litigation could be time consuming and costly. We defend our intellectual property rights because unauthorized copying and sale of our proprietary equipment and consumables represents a potential loss of revenue to us. From time to time we also receive 10 Table of Contents notices from others claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow in the future, and responding to these claims may require us to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or to pay damages. On November 18, 2004, Omax Corporation (“Omax”) filed suit against us alleging that our products infringe Omax’s patents. The suit also seeks to have a specific patent we hold declared invalid. Although the suit seeks damages of over $100 million, we believe Omax’s claims are without merit and we are contesting Omax’s allegations of infringement and also vigorously pursuing our claims against Omax with regard to our own patent. The outcome of this case is uncertain, and an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible. We have and will continue to spend substantial amounts contesting Omax’s claims and pursuing our own. See Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of contingencies. Our inability to settle our current insurance coverage litigation related to a June, 2002 claim could be time consuming and costly. In litigation arising out of a June 2002 incident at a Crucible Metals’ (“Crucible) facility, our excess insurance carrier notified us in December 2006 that it is contesting its obligation to provide coverage for the property damage. As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we purchase product liability insurance to cover claims of this nature. We believe the carrier’s position is without merit and we have commenced a declaratory judgment action seeking a determination that the carrier is obligated to provide a full defense of us. The outcome of this case is uncertain, and an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible. We have not provided any loss accrual related to this matter as of April 30, 2007. The unresolved claims relating to this incident total approximately $7 million. We have and may continue to spend substantial amounts contesting the insurance carrier’s denial of coverage. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. In the past, our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and we expect them to continue to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our operating results may in some future quarter fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition to the risks disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, factors outside of our control that have caused our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in the past and that may affect us in the future include: • fluctuations in general economic conditions; • demand for UHP pumps and UHP water management systems generally; • fluctuations in the capital budgets of customers; and • development of superior products and services by our competitors. In addition, factors within our control, such as our ability to deliver equipment in a timely fashion, have caused our operating results to fluctuate in the past and may affect us similarly in the future. The factors listed above may affect both our quarter-to-quarter operating results as well as our long-term success. Given the fluctuations in our operating results, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance or to determine any trend in our performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause the market price of and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We do business in industries that are cyclical, which may result in weakness in demand for our products. Our products are sold in many industries, including machine tool, which include job shops, stone and tile, automotive and aerospace, that are highly cyclical. The machine tool industry, from 1998 through 2003, experienced a significant decline in global demand. Cyclical weaknesses in the industries that we serve could lead to a reduced demand for our products. 11 Table of Contents We may be affected by rising costs or lack of availability of materials, which could negatively impact our operations. We have experienced and may continue to experience (i) significant increases in the costs, and (ii) shortages of materials we use in the manufacture of our products, such as steel, and we may not be able to either achieve corresponding increases in the prices of our products or reduce manufacturing costs to offset these increases, or if we do increase prices, we may experience lower sales. We have experienced and may continue to experience longer lead times for certain materials we use in the manufacture of our products, such as steel, and we may not be able to deliver our products in a timely fashion which could lower our sales. Any of the foregoing may adversely affect our financial results. Our waterjet manufacturing capacity is concentrated within three locations and our ability to provide product to our customers would be impacted should one of the facilities be closed. We operate three main manufacturing facilities to cover the worldwide production of our waterjet equipment: two in the United States, and one in Taiwan. Should any of these facilities suffer damages caused by an act of nature or terrorism, our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner would be affected which may have a negative impact on our operating results. If we cannot develop technological advancements to our products through continued research and engineering, our financial results may be adversely affected. In order to maintain our position in the market, we need to continue investment in research and engineering to improve our products and technologies and introduce new products and technologies. If we are unable to make such investment, if our research and engineering efforts do not lead to new and/or improved products or technologies, or if we experience delays in the development or acceptance of new and/or improved products, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have outstanding option, warrants, and restricted stock units that have the potential to dilute the return of our existing common shareholders and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have granted stock options to our employees and other individuals. At April 30, 2007, we had options and warrants outstanding to purchase 1,466,704 shares of our common stock, at exercise prices ranging from $2.00 to $12.81 per share. In addition, we have compensation plans with certain employees which granted those employees common stocks or restricted stock units totaling 51,750 shares in fiscal 2007. Washington law and our charter documents may make an acquisition of us more difficult. Provisions in Washington law and in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and rights plan could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders. These provisions: • Establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • Authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors (without shareholder approval) to increase the number of outstanding shares (including shares with special voting rights), each of which could hinder a takeover attempt; • Provide for a Preferred Share Rights Purchase Plan or “poison pill;” • Impose restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. • Provide that directors may be removed only at a special meeting of shareholders and provide that only directors may call a special meeting; • Require the affirmative approval of a merger, share exchange or sale of substantially all of the Corporation’s assets by 2/3 of the Corporation’s shares entitled to vote; and 12 Table of Contents • Provide for 60 day advance notification for shareholder proposals and nominations at shareholder meetings. Our largest shareholder, Third Point LLC, has made requests and demands that could require the focus of the Board of Directors and Management. Our largest shareholder, Third Point LLC (“Third Point”) had urged the Company to halt the search for a replacement Chief Executive Officer, and to retain an investment bank for the purpose of offering the Company for sale (subsequently changed to a demand to “retain a publicly identified and well recognized investment bank, with a clear mandate to explore strategic alternatives including a sale of the Company”). It had also insisted that the Company repeal its poison pill and de-stagger the election of its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors retained an investment bank, which performed a full capital markets analysis to ensure that the Board considered the broadest range of options and potential opportunities for optimizing shareholder value for the benefit of all shareholders. The Board of Directors has announced, following this analysis, that it believes that remaining independent is in the best interest of the shareholders. Third Point had indicated that if it is not satisfied with the Board’s responses to its requests and demands, it will seek to replace members of the Board of Directors at the next annual meeting. Third Point has not publicly responded to the Board’s announcement of the results of the capital markets analysis. It is possible that a proxy contest could be a distraction to the Company’s Board of Directors in its efforts to transition to, a new CEO and could be a distraction to the senior management team in their efforts to maintain the Company’s position as world leader in ultra high-pressure waterjet cutting technology. Market risk exists in our operations from potential adverse changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar in our foreign operations. A significant portion of our sales take place outside of the United States, and we transact business in various foreign currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar, the Eurodollar, the Japanese yen, the New Taiwan dollar, and the Swiss Franc. In addition, our foreign divisions may have customer receivables and vendor obligations in currencies other than their local currency which exposes us to near-term and longer term currency fluctuation risks. The assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. Aggregate net foreign exchange gains included in the determination of net income amounted to $2.0 million for the year ended April 30, 2007. We have used derivative instruments in the past and may continue to use them in the future to manage the risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. Moreover, the weaker U.S. dollar, relative to the local currency of many of the countries we sell into, has made our products less expensive, on a relative basis, when compared to locally manufactured products and products manufactured in certain other countries. As the U.S. dollar gains in value relative to these foreign currencies, our products will increase in cost to the customer relative to locally produced product and products manufactured in certain other countries, which could negatively impact sales. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, if identified in future periods, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules, we are required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accountants are required to audit and report on management’s assessment, as well as provide a separate opinion on their evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting. To make our assessment, we document our internal control design and the testing processes that support our evaluation and conclusion, and then we test and evaluate the results. There can 13 Table of Contents be no assurance, however, that we will be able to remediate material weaknesses, if any, that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. If we or our independent registered public accountants discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. There likewise can be no assurance that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 