Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that 31 management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including rules and policies applicable to participants in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or laws could have a substantial adverse impact on the Company and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Further, in the performance of their supervisory duties and enforcement powers, the Company’s banking regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy practices they deem as unsafe or unsound or violations of law. As a recipient of investment by the Treasury in our Series A preferred stock under the CPP, the Company is subject to current and future regulations of the Treasury and acts of Congress related to that program. The laws and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the CPP have been significantly revised and supplemented since the inception of that program, and continue to evolve. The exercise of regulatory authority generally may have a negative impact on the Company’s operations, which may be material on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company presently is subject to, and in the future may become subject to, additional supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have a material negative effect on its business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of its common stock. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the KDFI (for state-chartered banks), the Federal Reserve (for bank holding companies) and separately the FDIC as the insurer of bank deposits, have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on the Company’s part if they determine that the Company has insufficient capital or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under this authority, bank regulators can require the Company to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which the Company would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. Primarily as a result of increased levels of nonperforming assets, the Parent Company, Farmers Bank, United Bank, and Citizens Northern have entered into separate agreements with their respective regulators. In the aggregate, these agreements, among other things, require (1) the Company to develop an acceptable capital plan to ensure that the consolidated organization remains well-capitalized and each of its subsidiary banks meet the capital requirements imposed by their regulator as described elsewhere in this report, (2) the maintenance of minimum regulatory capital ratios at these three banks, (3) these three banks refrain from paying dividends to the Parent Company unless approved in advance by the regulators and (4) the Company not make future interest payments on its trust preferred securities or dividends on its common or preferred stock without seeking prior approval from FRB St. Louis and KDFI. Representatives of the FRB St. Louis and KDFI have indicated that any such approval for the payment of dividends will be predicated on a demonstration of adequate, normalized earnings on the part of the Company’s subsidiaries sufficient to support quarterly payments on the Company’s trust preferred securities and quarterly dividends on the Company’s common and preferred stock. While both regulatory agencies have granted approval of all subsequent quarterly Company requests to make interest payments on its trust preferred securities and dividends on its preferred stock, the Company has not (based on the assessment by Company management of both the Company’s capital position and the earnings of its subsidiaries) sought regulatory approval for the payment of common stock dividends since the fourth quarter of 2009. Moreover, the Company will not 32 pay any such dividends on its common stock until the regulator’s assessment of the earnings of the Company’s subsidiaries, and the Company’s assessment of its capital position and earnings trends, yield the conclusion that the payment of a common stock dividend is warranted. If the Company is unable to comply with the terms of its current regulatory orders, or is unable to comply with the terms of any future regulatory orders to which it may become subject, then it could become subject to additional, heightened supervisory actions and orders, possibly including cease and desist orders, prompt corrective actions and/or other regulatory enforcement actions. If the Company’s regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. If one or more of the Company’s banks were unable to comply with regulatory requirements, such banks could ultimately face failure. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and take significant management time to resolve. As of December 31, 2011, nonperforming loans (which include performing restructured loans of $19.1 million) totaled $78.9 million or 7.4% of the Company’s loan portfolio. Nonperforming assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were $117 million or 6.2% of total assets at year-end 2011. In addition, loans past due 30-89 days and still accruing were $5.1 million as of December 31, 2011. Nonperforming assets adversely affect the Company’s net income in various ways. The Company does not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting interest income. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the property to its fair value less estimated selling costs, which decreases earnings. Nonperforming loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the amount of capital the Company’s regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. While the Company seeks to reduce its problem loans through workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of these assets, the underlying collateral or our borrowers’ performance or financial conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant time commitments from management of our banks, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. If economic conditions do not improve or worsen in our markets, the Company could continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming assets. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance established for that purpose, which will have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy increases the Company’s risk of credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. If a significant number of loans in the Company’s portfolio are not repaid, it would have an adverse effect on its earnings and overall financial condition. Like all banks, the Company’s subsidiaries maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses reflects management of each subsidiary’s best estimate of probable incurred credit losses in their loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. This evaluation is primarily based upon a review of the bank’s and the banking industry’s historical loan loss experience, known risks contained in the bank’s loan portfolio, composition and growth of the bank’s loan portfolio and economic factors. Additionally, a bank’s regulators may require additional provision for the loan portfolio in connection with regulatory examinations, agreements or orders. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. As a result, the Company’s allowance for loan losses may be inadequate to cover actual losses in its loan portfolio. Consequently, the Company risks having additional future provisions for loan losses that may continue to adversely affect its earnings. 33 If the Company’s local markets experience a prolonged recession or economic downturn, it may be required to make further increases in its allowance for loan losses and to charge off additional loans, which would adversely affect its results of operations and capital. Substantially all of the Company’s loans are to businesses and individuals located in Kentucky. A continuing or prolonged decline in the economy of Central and Northern Kentucky could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. During 2011, the Company recorded a provision for loan losses of $13.5 million, which includes $3.3 million for the fourth quarter, and recorded net loan charge-offs of $14.0 million, $5.9 million of which was in the fourth quarter. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $17.2 million and net loan charge-offs of $11.8 million for 2010, and a $3.6 million provision and $2.6 million of net loan charge-offs which were recorded for the fourth quarter of 2010. Generally, the Company’s nonperforming loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers; however, more recently the prolonged decline in the general economy has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquencies and nonperforming loans. Sluggish sales and excess inventory in the residential housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for residential construction and land development loans. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s total nonperforming loans had decreased to $78.9 million or 7.4% of loans compared to $91.0 million or 7.6% of loans at December 31, 2010. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, the Company expects that it will continue to experience high delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, the Company expects that a prolonged recession or economic downturn could severely impact economic conditions in its market areas and that it could experience high levels of delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, the Company may be required to make further increases to its provision for loan losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. If such additional provisions and charge-offs cause the Company to experience losses, it may be required to contribute additional capital to its bank subsidiaries to maintain capital ratios required by regulators. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is increased by its real estate development lending. Real estate development loans represent 28.9% of the Company’s impaired loans. Substantially all of the Company’s $59.8 million nonaccrual loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 are secured by real estate. Development lending has historically been considered to be higher credit risk than single-family residential lending. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or related borrowers. Such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy in general because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development and, in most cases, sale of their property. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortized over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity of the loan. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. In the current economic environment, the ability of borrowers to refinance or sell newly developed property or vacant land has greatly diminished. If the real estate markets were to worsen or not improve, the Company would likely experience increased credit losses and require additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely impact the Company’s earnings and financial condition. The Company’s investment securities portfolio is comparatively larger than other community banks and it is more dependent on its investment portfolio to generate net income. Unlike many other community banks, the Company relies more heavily on its investment securities portfolio as a source of interest income because it has a comparatively small loan portfolio. If the Company is not able to successfully manage the interest rate spread on the investment portfolio, its net interest income will decrease, which would adversely affect its results of operations and negatively impact net income. Investment securities tend to have a lower risk than loans, and as such, generally provide a lower yield. For 2011, average investment securities made up 28.7% of the Company’s average total assets. Interest income on investment securities accounted for 20.8% of total interest income for 2011. During 2011 the Company sold and realized net gains on investment securities. The Company may not have the same level of net gains (and may have net realized losses) in future periods on the sale of investment securities, which would 34 reduce earnings. Moreover, due to the current interest rate environment, proceeds from recent sales may be reinvested in investment securities with lower yields which may reduce earnings from investment securities. The Company continually monitors its investment securities portfolio for deteriorating values and for other-than-temporary impairments. Any material other-than-temporary impairments would likewise have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations and could lead to additional losses. The Company cannot accurately predict the effect of the current economy on its future results of operations or the market price of its stock. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular continue to face unique challenges. The Company cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic downturn, which has adversely impacted its performance and the markets it serves. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in the Company’s local markets would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of the Company’s stock to decline. While it is impossible to predict how long these conditions may exist, the economic downturn could continue to present risks for some time for our industry and the Company. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, the policies of the Company’s regulators, and the prevailing interest rates in the United States and the Company’s markets. In addition, it is increasingly common for the Company’s competitors, who may be aggressively seeking to attract deposits as a result of liquidity concerns arising from changing economic or other conditions, to pay rates on deposits that are much higher than normal market rates. A significant component of the Company’s earnings is the net interest income of its subsidiary banks, which is the difference between the income from interest earning assets, such as loans, and the expense on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest it pays on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest it collects on loans and investments; or, alternatively, if interest rates earned on earning assets decline faster than those rates paid on interest paying liabilities. Consequently, as with most financial institutions, the Company is sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The FDIC periodically amends its deposit insurance rate assessment structure, which can increase costs to the Company. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance fund’s designated reserve ratio to 1.35% of insured deposits by 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act removed the previously established upper limit reserve ratio of 1.15%. The FDIC must continue to assess and consider the appropriate level of the reserve ratio annually by considering each of the following: risk of loss to the insurance fund; economic conditions affecting the banking industry; the prevention of sharp swings in the assessment rates; and any other factors the FDIC deems important. In December 2010 the FDIC announced that it had established the long-term reserve ratio at 2.0%. The FDIC previously implemented a restoration plan that changed both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. As part of this plan, during the second quarter of 2009 it increased deposit insurance assessment rates generally and imposed a special assessment of five basis points on each insured institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital. The special assessment in 2009, which was in addition to the regular quarterly risk-based assessment, totaled approximately $1.1 million for the Company. In the wake of a rapid depletion of the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund resulting from a high number of bank failures, the FDIC required that all (with limited exceptions) insured institutions pay in the fourth quarter of 2009 its following estimated three years’ quarterly deposit assessments in advance. This resulted in an aggregate payment by the Company’s bank subsidiaries totaling $8.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. The three years’ advance payment was recorded as a prepaid asset that is being expensed in approximately equal amounts over prepayment period and, thus, only impact earnings in the normal course. However, the advance payment reduced the liquid assets of the Company’s bank 35 subsidiaries at the time of payment. At December 31, 2011, the prepaid FDIC insurance assessment included on the Company’s balance sheet was $4.0 million. As discussed previously under the heading “Deposit Insurance” in Item 1, the Dodd-Frank Act required changes to a number of components of the FDIC insurance assessment that was effective April 1, 2011. While these changes resulted in a lower amount of deposit insurance assessments for the Company in 2011 compared to 2010, future changes in assessment rates or methodology could adversely impact the Company’s future earnings and liquidity in a material amount. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits of business customers could increase the Company’s interest expense. Federal prohibitions against financial institutions paying interest on demand deposit accounts of business customers were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could offer to pay interest on commercial demand deposits to compete for customers. The Company would expect its interest expense to increase and its net interest margin to decrease should it begin to pay interest on commercial demand deposits to attract additional customers or to keep current customers. This could result in a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, the Company does not offer interest bearing demand deposits to its business customers. Any future losses may require the Company to raise additional capital; however, such capital may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain levels of capital to support its operations. Furthermore, in the wake of recent regularly scheduled examinations of three of its subsidiaries, the Company’s regulators have required these three banks to raise their capital to levels significantly above the well-capitalized benchmark. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time and on the Company’s future financial condition and performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot make assurances with respect to its ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and its financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. The Parent Company is currently under no directive by its regulators to raise any additional capital. The tightening of available liquidity could limit the Company’s ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. A tightening of the credit and liquidity markets and the Company’s inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits may negatively affect its earnings and capital levels. In addition to deposit growth, maturity of investment securities, and loan payments from borrowers, the Company relies from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank and other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. In the event of a further downturn in the economy, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected which could limit the funds available to the Company. The Company’s liquidity position could be significantly constrained if it were unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank or other wholesale funding sources. The Company’s financial condition and outlook may be adversely affected by damage to its reputation. The Company’s financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of its business practices and reputation. Its ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent its reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from its actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including regulatory actions taken against the Company, lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers of its subsidiaries, or sharing or inadequate protection of customer information. Damage to the Company’s reputation could give rise to loss of customers and legal risks, which could have an adverse impact on its financial condition. 36 The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. The Company conducts most of its operations in Central and Northern Kentucky. The banking and financial services businesses in these areas are highly competitive and increased competition in its primary market areas may adversely impact the level of its loans and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the Company’s competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to increase its loans and level of deposits. The Company’s financial results could be adversely affected by changes in accounting standards or tax laws and regulations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC frequently change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. In addition, from time to time, federal and state taxing authorities will change the tax laws, regulations, and their interpretations. These changes and their effects can be difficult to predict and can materially and adversely impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The short term and long term impact of changes to banking capital standards could negatively impact the Company’s regulatory capital and liquidity. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued final rules related to global regulatory standards on bank capital adequacy and liquidity. The new rules present details of the Basel III framework, which includes increased capital requirements and limits the types of instruments that can be included in Tier 1 capital. Basel III includes the following provisions: (i) that the minimum ratio of common equity to risk weighted assets be increased to 4.5% from the current level of 2%, to be fully phased in by January 1, 2015, and (ii) that the minimum requirement for the Tier 1 Risk-based capital ratio will be increased from 4% to 6%, to be fully phased in by January 1, 2015. The new minimums will be phased in starting January 1, 2013. Basel III also includes a “capital conservation buffer” requiring banking organizations to maintain an additional 2.5% of Tier 1 common equity to total risk weighted assets in addition to the minimum requirement. This requirement will be phased in between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses in periods of financial and economic distress and, while banks are allowed to draw on the buffer during periods of stress, if a bank’s regulatory capital ratios approach the minimum requirement, the bank will be subject to more stringent constraints on dividends and bonuses. In addition, Basel III includes a countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which could be imposed by countries to address economies that appear to be building excessive system-wide risks due to rapid growth. To constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking system, Basel III introduces a new non-risk-based leverage ratio. A minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio of 3% will be tested during a parallel run period between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2017. Based on the results of the parallel run period, any final adjustments would be carried out in the first half of 2017. Basel III includes two separate standards for supervising liquidity risks which include: (i) a “liquidity coverage ratio” designed to ensure that banks have a sufficient amount of high-quality liquid assets to survive a significant liquidity stress scenario over a 30-day period, (ii) a “net stable funding ratio” designed to promote more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. The liquidity coverage ratio will become effective on January 1, 2015. The revised net stable funding ratio will become effective January 1, 2018. 37 Basel III implementation in the U.S. will require that regulations and guidelines be issued by U.S. banking regulators, which may significantly differ from the recommendations published by the Basel Committee. Those regulations and guidelines have yet to be adopted in the U. S. The Company cannot predict at this time the precise content of capital and liquidity guidelines or regulations that may be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us and our subsidiaries. The new standards, however, will generally require the Company and our banking subsidiaries to maintain more capital (with common equity as a more predominant component) and manage the configuration of our assets and liabilities in order to comply with new liquidity requirements, which could significantly impact our return on equity, financial condition, operations, capital position, and ability to pursue business opportunities. The price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult to resell it when you want or at prices you find attractive. The Company cannot predict how its common stock will trade in the future. The market value of its common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: · general economic conditions and conditions in the financial markets; · changes in global financial markets, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility and other geopolitical events; · conditions in our local and national credit, mortgage and housing markets; · developments with respect to financial institutions generally, including government regulation; · our dividend practice; and · actual and anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and earnings. The market value of the Company’s common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in: (1) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, the Company’s common stock and (2) sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the Company’s operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of the Company’s common stock. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of the Company’s equity, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of sales by the Company of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur. The Company’s board of directors is authorized generally to cause it to issue additional common stock, as well as series of preferred stock, without any action on the part of the Company’s shareholders except as may be required under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, the board has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences and other terms. This could include preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon liquidation. If the Company issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if the Company issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. The Parent Company is currently under no directive by its regulators to raise any additional capital. 38 You may not receive dividends on the Company’s common stock. Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if its board of directors declares them, and as permitted by its regulators. Although the Company has (up through 2009) historically declared quarterly cash dividends on its common stock, it is not required to do so. The Company’s board of directors reduced its quarterly common stock dividend in January 2009 from $.33 per share to $.25 per share and again in October 2009 to $.10 per share. The Company also agreed to not make interest payments on its trust preferred securities or dividends on its common or preferred stock without prior approval from the FRB St. Louis and KDFI. Representatives of the FRB St. Louis and KDFI have indicated that any such approval for the payment of dividends will be predicated on a demonstration of adequate, normalized earnings on the part of the Company’s subsidiaries sufficient to support quarterly payments on the Company’s trust preferred securities and quarterly dividends on the Company’s common and preferred stock. However, there can be no assurance the Company’s regulators will provide such approvals in the future. While both regulatory agencies have granted approval of all subsequent quarterly Company requests to make interest payments on its trust preferred securities and dividends on its preferred stock, the Company has not (based on the assessment by Company management of both the Company’s capital position and the earnings of its subsidiaries) sought regulatory approval for the payment of common stock dividends since the fourth quarter of 2009. Moreover, the Company will not pay any such dividends on its common stock in any subsequent quarter until the regulator’s assessment of the earnings of the Company’s subsidiaries, and the Company’s assessment of its capital position, both yield the conclusion that the payment of a Company common stock dividend is warranted. In addition, the Company’s payment of dividends is subject to certain restrictions as a result of its issuance of Series A preferred stock to the Treasury on January 9, 2009 under the TARP CPP. The dividends declared on the Company’s Series A preferred stock reduce the net income available to common stockholders and reduce earnings per common share. Moreover, under the terms of the Company’s articles of incorporation, it is unable to declare dividend payments on shares of its common stock if it is in arrears on the dividends on the Series A preferred stock. Further, until January 9, 2012, the Company must have the Treasury’s approval before it may increase dividends on its common stock above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share we declared prior to October 14, 2008, which was $.33 per share. This restriction no longer applies if all the Series A preferred stock has been redeemed by the Company or transferred by the Treasury. If the Company is in arrears on interest payments on its trust preferred securities, it may not pay dividends on its common stock until such interest obligations are brought current. The Company’s ability to pay dividends depends upon the results of operations of its subsidiary banks and certain regulatory considerations. The Parent Company is a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiary banks. As a result, the Company’s ability to make dividend payments on its common stock depends primarily on certain federal and state regulatory considerations and the receipt of dividends and other distributions from its bank subsidiaries. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of three of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends or make other payments to the Parent Company and its ability to make payments to its shareholders, including certain regulatory approvals of dividends or distributions. There can be no assurance that the Company will receive such approval or that it will resume paying dividends to shareholders. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock is less than that of many other similar companies. The Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market. As of December 31, 2011 the 50-day average trading volume of the Company’s common stock on NASDAQ was 7,715 shares or .10% of the total common shares outstanding of 7,446,445. An efficient public trading market is dependent upon the existence in the marketplace of willing buyers and willing sellers of a stock at any given time. The Company has no control over such individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, larger sales volumes of its common stock could cause the value of its common stock to decrease. Moreover, due to its lower trading volume it may take longer to liquidate your position in the Company’s common stock. 39 There can be no assurance when the Company’s Series A preferred stock and related warrant issued to the Treasury can be redeemed. Subject to consultation with banking regulators, the Company intends to repurchase the Series A preferred stock, and potentially the warrant, it issued to the Treasury when it believes the credit metrics in its loan portfolio have improved for the long-term and the overall economy has rebounded. However, there can be no assurance when the Series A preferred stock and warrant held by the Treasury can be repurchased, if at all. Until such time as the Series A preferred stock are repurchased, the Company will remain subject to the terms and conditions of those instruments, which, among other things, limit the Company’s ability to repurchase or redeem common stock or increase the dividends on its common stock over $.33 per share prior to 2012. Further, the Company’s continued participation in the CPP subjects it to increased regulatory and legislative oversight, including with respect to executive compensation. These new and any future oversight and legal requirements and implementing standards under the CPP may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry as a whole, and particularly on CPP participants such as the Company. Holders of the Company’s Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s common stockholders. The Series A preferred stock that the Company issued to the Treasury is senior to the Company’s shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of the Company’s common stock. The restrictions on the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends to common stockholders are discussed above. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of the Company’s common stock unless the Company has paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of the Company’s common stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Company’s Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. Except (1) in connection with the election of two directors to the Company’s board of directors if its dividends on the Series A preferred stock are in arrears and we have missed six quarterly dividends and (2) as otherwise required by law, holders of the Company’s Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. In addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or the Company’s articles of incorporation, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A preferred stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A preferred stock that adversely affects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A preferred stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A preferred stock remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity other than the Company and have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable than those of the holders of the Series A preferred stock. The Company’s common stock constitutes equity and is subordinate to its existing and future indebtedness and its Series A preferred stock, and effectively subordinated to all the indebtedness and other non-common equity claims against its subsidiaries. Shares of the Company’s common stock represent equity interests in our holding company and do not constitute indebtedness. Accordingly, the shares of the Company’s common stock rank junior to all of its indebtedness and to other non-equity claims on Farmers Capital Bank Corporation with respect to assets available to satisfy such claims. Additionally, dividends to holders of the Company’s common stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of the holders of the Company’s Series A preferred stock and any additional preferred stock we may issue. The Series A preferred stock has an aggregate liquidation preference of $30 million. The Company’s right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of its subsidiaries upon the subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise, and thus the ability of the Company’s common stock to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary. As a result, holders of the Company’s common stock will be 40 effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of its subsidiaries, including claims of depositors. As of December 31, 2011 our subsidiaries’ total deposits and borrowings were approximately $1.7 billion. If the Company is unable to redeem its Series A preferred stock after an initial five-year period, the cost of this capital will increase substantially. If the Company is unable to redeem its Series A preferred stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase from approximately $1.5 million annually (5.0% per annum of the Series A preferred stock liquidation value) to $2.7 million annually (9.0% per annum of the Series A preferred stock liquidation value). This increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A preferred stock would have a material negative effect on the earnings the Company can retain for growth and to pay dividends on its common stock. The current economic environment exposes the Company to higher credit losses and expenses and may result in lower earnings or increase the likelihood of losses. Although the Company remains well-capitalized, it continues to operate in a very challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions, including the Company, are being adversely effected by difficult economic conditions that have impacted not only local markets, but on a national and global scale. Substantial deterioration in real estate and other financial markets have and may continue to adversely impact the Company’s financial performance. Continuing declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, along with high levels of unemployment and other economic stresses can decrease the value of collateral securing loans extended to borrowers, particularly that of real estate loans. Lower values of real estate securing loans may make it more difficult for the Company to recover amounts it is owed in the event of default by a borrower. The current economic conditions may result in a higher degree of financial stress on the Company’s borrowers and their customers which could impair the Company’s ability to collect payments on loans, potentially increasing loan delinquencies, nonperforming assets, foreclosures, and higher losses. Current market forces have and may in the future cause the value of investment securities or other assets held by the Company to deteriorate, resulting in impairment charges, higher losses, and lower regulatory capital levels. Market volatility could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, liquidity position, and access to additional capital. The capital and credit markets have experienced heavy volatility and disruptions during the recent economic downturn, with unprecedented levels of volatility and disruptions that took place beginning in the last few months of 2008. In many cases, this led to downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If market disruptions and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience a material adverse effect on its results of operations and liquidity position or on its ability to access additional capital. Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of limited market area. Commercial banks and other financial institutions, including the Company, are affected by economic and political conditions, both domestic and international, and by governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, value of the dollar, recession, high unemployment rates, high interest rates, prolonged periods of low interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international turmoil, terrorism and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect profitability. In addition, almost all of the Company’s primary business area is located in Central and Northern Kentucky. Significant downturns in this regional economy may result in, among other things, deterioration in the Company’s credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of the Company’s customers. Due to the Company’s regional market area, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on the Company than would be experienced by an institution with a larger, more diverse market area. 41 The Company’s results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by: · unanticipated declines in borrower income or cash flow; · changes in economic and industry conditions; · the duration of the loan; and · in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. Due to the fact that the outstanding principal balances can be larger for commercial loans than other types of loans, such loans present a greater risk to the Company than other types of loans when non-payment by a borrower occurs. In addition, consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields compared to real estate mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of frequency of default than real estate mortgage and commercial loans. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and net income. The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as its loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. The Company’s management regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system of controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company offers online banking services and both sends and receives confidential customer information electronically. This activity is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses which could expose the Company to litigation and adversely affect our reputation and overall operations. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a significant element of online banking. The Company’s computer network or those of its customers could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. The Company could be required to commit additional resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to remedy problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the Company’s activities or the activities of its customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose the Company to litigation and other possible liabilities. The inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in the Company’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and overall operations. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. The Company’s customers or others may make claims and take legal action against us related to fiduciary responsibilities. If claims and legal action against the Company are not resolved in a favorable manner to the Company, it could result in a material financial liability or damage to our reputation. 42 The Dodd-Frank Act may increase the Company’s costs of operations which could adversely impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law by President Obama. The goals of the new legislation include restoring public confidence in the financial system that resulted from the recent financial and credit crises, preventing another financial crisis, and allowing regulators to identify failings in the system before another crisis can occur. As part of the reform, the Dodd-Frank Act creates the Financial Stability Oversight Council, with oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which has broad regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services. The Dodd-Frank Act also changes the responsibilities of the current federal banking regulators, imposes additional corporate governance and disclosure requirements in areas such as executive compensation and proxy access, and limits or prohibits proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks. It also impacts areas such as deposit insurance, mortgage lending, capital requirements, securitizations, and insurance. The scope of the Dodd-Frank Act impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations that may span the next several years; consequently, the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry and the Company will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them and the approaches taken to implement the regulations. The Company continues to assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on its business and operations and believes that compliance with these new laws and regulations will likely result in additional costs, but the probable impact cannot be measured with a high degree of certainty. Compliance with the new laws and regulations could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, any of which may impact the market price of the Company’s common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 