Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of limited market area Commercial banks and other financial institutions are affected by economic and political conditions, both domestic and international, and by governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, value of the dollar, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect profitability. In addition, almost all of the Company’s primary business area is located in Central and Northern Kentucky. A significant downturn in this regional economy may result in, among other things, deterioration in the Company’s credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of the Company’s customers. Due to the Company’s regional market area, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on the Company than would be experienced by an institution with a larger, more diverse market area. The Company’s status as a holding company makes it dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations The Company is a financial holding company and conducts almost all of its operations through its subsidiaries. The Company does not have any significant assets other than cash, company-owned life insurance and the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Company depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations and obtain revenue. The Company’s right to participate in any distribution of earnings or assets of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiaries. Under federal and state law, the Company’s bank subsidiaries are limited in the amount of dividends they may pay to the Company without prior regulatory approval. Also, bank regulators have the authority to prohibit the subsidiary banks from paying dividends if the bank regulators determine the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Interest rate volatility could significantly harm the Company’s business The Company’s results of operations are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the regulatory policies of governmental authorities. A significant component of the Company’s earnings is its net interest income, which is the difference between the income from interest-earning assets, such as loans, and the expense of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. A change in market interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s earnings if market interest rates change such that the interest the Company’s subsidiaries pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest they collect on loans and investments. Consequently, the Company, along with other financial institutions generally, is sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. The Company’s results of operations are significantly affected by the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans Lending money is an essential part of the banking business. However, borrowers do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is affected by: · credit risks of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; 12 · the duration of the loan; and · in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. Due to the fact that the outstanding principal balances can be larger for commercial loans than other types of loans, such loans present a greater risk to the Company than other types of loans when non-payment by a borrower occurs. In addition, consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields compared to real estate mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of frequency of default than real estate mortgage and commercial loans. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if its allowance for loan losses were not sufficient to absorb actual losses There is no precise method of predicting loan losses. The Company can give no assurance that the allowance for loan losses of its subsidiaries is or will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. Excess loan losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Each of the Company’s subsidiary banks attempts to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for estimated losses in its loan portfolio, but there are no guaranties actual future loan losses will not exceed these estimates and allowances. Each subsidiary bank of the Company periodically determines the amount of its allowance for loan losses based upon consideration of several factors, including: · a regular review of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; · historical loan loss experience; · evaluation of non-performing loans; · assessment of economic conditions and their effects on the bank’s existing portfolio; and · the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing loans. Combining Citizens Jessamine or other business entities with the Company’s network of banks may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than we expect Citizens Jessamine will continue to operate as an independent bank, albeit within the network of the Company’s existing banking subsidiaries. Bringing Citizens Jessamine within this network will involve converting certain data processing functions from its current format, changing some of the policies and procedures in place at Citizens Jessamine and other integration issues. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees or disruption of each company’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, procedures and policies that would adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. If we have difficulties with the integration process, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the acquisition. As with any merger of banking institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause Citizens Jessamine to lose customers or cause customers to take their deposits out of the bank and move their business to other financial institutions. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as its loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented The Company’s management regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system of controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. 13 Trading volume in the Company’s common stock is less than that of other similar companies The Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market. However, the trading volume of the Company’s common stock is less than that of other similar companies. An efficient public trading market is dependent upon the existence in the marketplace of willing buyers and willing sellers of the Company’s common stock at any given time. This existence depends on individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, larger sales volumes of the Company’s common stock could cause the value of the Company’s common stock to decrease. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Item 