Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to certain risks and events that, if they occur, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock.You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report and the matters described in our “Forward-Looking Statements” section, as well as other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business, and an investment in our securities.Risks Related to our BusinessOur results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected by changes in product mix or pricing.Our overall profitability may not meet expectations if our products, customers or geographic mix or changes in customer requirements or specifications, in particular as it relates to our long-term contracts, are substantially different than anticipated or initially planned. Our profit margins vary among products, customers and geographic markets. Consequently, if our mix of any of these is substantially different from what is anticipated or planned in any particular period, our operating results may be negatively affected and our profitability lower than anticipated. The global macroeconomic environment continues to be volatile and its impact on the credit markets could adversely affect our results of operations.The macroeconomic environment continues to remain volatile and to the extent that it deteriorates it could:•have an adverse effect on our customers and suppliers and their ability to purchase our products;•reduce our ability to take advantage of growth and expansion opportunities;•adversely affect our ability to access credit markets or raise capital on terms acceptable to us;•limit our capital expenditures for repair or replacement of existing facilities or equipment; and•adversely affect our ability to be in compliance with covenants under existing credit agreements.All of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.Failure to effectively manage our indirect sales channel and indirect technical service providers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.In order to increase sales and capture a leading market share globally, we have focused on expanding our indirect sales channel, through distributors and sales agents, to augment our existing direct sales force. Additionally, we have engaged indirect technical service partners to augment our technical service staff with installations and service calls as a result of the increase in demand for our products. Our success in integrating the indirect sales channel and indirect technical service providers into our business will be impacted by our ability to train and manage new and existing relationships with distributors, sales agents and service providers. If we are not able to effectively train and manage these indirect channels, we may not be able to achieve our operating result goals and this could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.Rising commodity and fuel prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We are a large buyer of steel, as well as other commodities required for the manufacture of our products. As a result, changes in commodity and fuel prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition through increased inventory and shipping costs by suppliers. Historically, we have been able to pass on increases in commodity and shipping prices to our customers; however, our success in doing so in future periods cannot be assured.If we fail to technologically advance our products and successfully introduce new products, our future growth and financial results may be adversely affected.Our ability to develop and introduce new products may affect our competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future revenues and adversely affect our competitive position and our financial results. 10Table of ContentsForeign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We have substantial assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and to prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate these items into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. We are therefore exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar. Of these, the most significant is currently the Euro. Substantially all of our sales to our customers and operating costs in Europe are denominated in Euro, creating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, certain of our foreign subsidiaries make sales denominated in U.S. Dollars which expose them to foreign currency transaction gains and losses.If we fail to obtain sufficient quantities of materials and components required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis or fail to effectively adapt our cost structure to changing market conditions, our business and financial results will suffer.We purchase materials and components from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Some of our business units purchase these items from sole or limited source suppliers. If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials and components at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed our production requirements or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile.The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. On July 23, 2013, the closing price of our common stock was $3.81. Our stock price could decline or be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the risks discussed in this section and the following:•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or our competitors' operating results; •statements by us regarding the process to evaluate strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value including, among other things, the potential sale of the Company or other transaction; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products; •capacity changes, significant contracts or changes to existing contracts, acquisitions, or strategic investments;•our growth rate and our competitors' growth rates;•changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors, or our industry in general, or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; •negative changes in global financial markets and economic conditions;•sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, and significant stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock at one time; and•changes in accounting principles.In addition, there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of our securities that is sometimes unrelated to our operating performance. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been the target of a hostile takeover or subject to involvement by activist shareholders. If we were to become the target of such a situation, it could result in substantial costs and would divert management's attention and resources.We have unresolved claims with the purchaser of Avure.During fiscal year 2009, we were notified by the purchaser of our Avure Business (“Purchaser”), which we reported as a discontinued operation for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006, that the Swedish tax authority was conducting an audit which includes periods during the time that we owned the subsidiary. Pursuant to our agreement with the Purchaser, we had made commitments to indemnify various liabilities and claims, including any tax matters relating to the periods when we owned the business. The Swedish tax authority concluded its audit and issued a final report in November 2009, initially asserting that Avure owes 19.5 million Swedish Krona, approximately $2.8 million at the initial date of assessment, in additional taxes, penalties and fines. In April 2010, we filed an appeal on behalf of Avure to contest the Swedish tax authority's assertion. Since the filing of our appeal, there has been a hearing before the Swedish district court regarding our appeal. In August 2012, we received notice that the Swedish district court issued a ruling in favor of the Swedish tax authority. We continue to contest the findings and filed an appeal with the Administrative Court of Stockholm in September 2012. We recorded a charge in fiscal year 2010 related to the periods during which we owned Avure and, as of April 30, 2013, the liability is approximately $1.3 11Table of Contentsmillion. The balance of the accrued liability will fluctuate period over period with changes in foreign currency rates until such time as the matter is ultimately resolved.We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we may be unable to develop, implement, and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and could have an adverse effect on our share price. We have identified a material weakness in the control environment within our Brazilian operations and in our monitoring of these operations that resulted in design and operating control deficiencies including those related to the tracking and accounting for inventory and the preparation and review of income tax returns for our subsidiary in Brazil. Additionally, we determined we had a material weakness in the scope and conduct of investigations related to whistleblower allegations. As a result, our management concluded that disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of April 30, 2013. See Item 9A - Controls and Procedures. In the course of remediating the material weaknesses, we may find historical errors or discover new facts that cause us to reach different conclusions on our historical accounting or otherwise change our existing opinion of these matters. This could result in adverse adjustments to our previously reported financial results. In addition, we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our share price. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or third parties might assert that our technologies infringe on their intellectual property. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and trademarks to protect our intellectual property, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties, certain of whom have filed lawsuits against us in the past, might assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. Any future related litigation to defend our intellectual property and/or defend ourselves from assertions of infringement could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and could adversely affect our business, whether or not we are ultimately successful.If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified employees, including our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business.Our success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing, and corporate personnel. If we fail to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified employees, we may have difficulties in supporting our customers or expanding our business. The realignment of resources, reductions in workforce, and/or other operational decisions could create an unstable work environment that may have a negative effect on our ability to hire, retain, and motivate employees.Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees, all of whom are employed on an at-will basis. While none of our key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals may be disruptive to our business. There can be no assurance that any retention program we initiate will be successful at retaining employees, including key employees.Changes in our income tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, accruals related to unrecognized tax benefits, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and changes in tax laws. Any of these factors may adversely affect our tax rate and decrease our profitability. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our unrecognized tax benefits, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities.12Table of ContentsUnexpected losses in future reporting periods may require the Company to adjust the valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets.We evaluate our deferred tax assets for realizability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between the future projected operating performance and our actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative available evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry back or carry forward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we may be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of April 30, 2013, we had $17.6 million of net deferred tax assets.Any significant disruption in our information technology systems or those of third-parties that we utilize in our operations could adversely impact our business.We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party web hosting provider. In addition, we utilize third-party Internet-based or “cloud” computing services in connection with our business operations. Our servers and those of third-parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, cyber attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our operations as well as loss, misuse, or theft of data. Our global presence subjects us to risk that may adversely affect our profitability, cash flow, and financial condition.In fiscal year 2013, approximately 58% of our sales were derived outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S., we expect to continue to increase our sales outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets. In addition, some of our sales distribution offices and many of our suppliers are located outside the U.S. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including:•interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers;•changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions;•trade protection measures;•import or export licensing requirements;•unexpected changes in laws or licensing and regulatory requirements, including negative consequences from changes in tax laws; •limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings; •difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; •differing employment practices and labor issues; •differing protection of intellectual property; and •natural disasters, security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto.Any of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and overall growth.We may need to raise funds to finance our future capital and/or operating needs.We may need to raise funds through public or private debt or sale of equity to achieve our current business strategy in future periods. The financing we need may not be available when needed. Even if this financing is available, it may be on terms that we deem unfavorable or are materially adverse to our shareholders' interests, and may involve substantial dilution to our shareholders. Our inability to obtain financing will inhibit our ability to implement our development strategy, and as a result, could require us to diminish or suspend our development strategy and possibly cease certain of our operations. If we require additional funds and are unable to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, we could be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate certain product development programs and/or our capital projects. In addition, such inability to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms could have a negative effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition to such 13Table of Contentsextent that we are forced to restructure, sell assets or cease operations, any of which could put our shareholders' investment dollars at significant risk.We may incur net losses in the future, and we may not be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.We may incur net losses in the future including losses from our operations, the impairment of long-lived assets and restructuring charges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to conduct our business profitably in the future.We may not be able to comply with the financial tests or ratios required in order to comply with covenant requirements under our Credit Facility which may impact our ability to draw funds and may result in the acceleration of the maturity of, and/or the termination of the Credit Facility.Our Credit Facility agreement requires us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and restrict our ability to: •draw down on our existing line of credit or incur more debt;•make certain investments and payments;•fund additional letters of credit;•pay cash dividends; and•transfer or sell assets.Our ability to comply with these covenants is subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain the financial tests and ratios required by this indebtedness. Any failure by us to comply with and maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to a substantial portion of our debt which would result in the acceleration of the maturity and/or the termination of our credit facility. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our sole discretion could harm our business.Our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events.Disasters and business interruptions such as earthquakes, flooding, fire, and electrical failure affecting our operating activities and major facilities could materially and adversely affect our operations, our operating results and financial condition. We have developed a disaster recovery plan to mitigate the negative results of such an occurrence; however, the implementation and execution of such plans may not be adequate.If we are unable to complete the upgrades to our information technology systems that are currently in process, or our upgrades are unsuccessfully implemented, our future success may be negatively impacted.In order to maintain our leadership position in the market and efficiently process increased business volume, we are making ongoing upgrades to our computer hardware, software and our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) systems. Should we be unable to continue to fund these upgrades, or should the system upgrades be unsuccessful or take longer to implement than anticipated, our ability to grow the business and our financial results could be adversely impacted. Violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to civil or criminal liability. As a global company, we are also subject to risks that our employees, representatives or agents could conduct our operations outside the U.S. in ways that may violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-bribery laws. Although we have policies and procedures to comply with those laws, our employees, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Further, indirect sales representatives or other agents that help sell our products or provide other services may violate our anti-bribery policies and procedures as we do not have direct oversight into their conduct. Any such violations could result in fines and other penalties and could otherwise have a negative impact on our business.There are uncertainties associated with the exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value.On June 7, 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors initiated a process to evaluate strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, including, among other things, the potential sale of the Company or other transaction. The Board of Directors has retained a financial advisor to assist it in evaluating these alternatives. There is no set timetable for completion of the evaluation process, and we do not intend to provide updates or make any comments regarding the evaluation of strategic 14Table of Contentsalternatives, unless our Board of Directors has approved a specific transaction or otherwise deems disclosure appropriate. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any transaction or enhance shareholder value.Risks Related to the Industries in Which We OperateThe markets we serve are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have resources superior to ours. The result of this competition could reduce our sales and operating margins.We face competition in a number of our served markets as a result of the entry of new competitors and alternative technologies such as lasers, saws, plasma, shears, routers, drills and abrasive blasting techniques. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, more developed infrastructures or more established relationships in the industry than we have. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, develop and expand their product offerings more rapidly, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, achieve greater economies of scale, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products than we do. Our failure to compete effectively may reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures may adversely impact our profitability.Cyclical economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or our growth rate could decline if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated.Our products are sold in industries and end-user applications that have historically experienced periodic downturns, such as automotive, aerospace, job shops, stone and tile and surface preparation. Cyclical weaknesses in the industries that we serve have led and could lead to a reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any competitive pricing pressures, slowdown in capital investments or other downturn in these industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in any given period. Additionally, visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline in our customers' markets would likely result in diminished demand for our products and services and would adversely affect our growth rate and profitability.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsThere are no unresolved comments that were received from the SEC staff relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as of April 30, 2013.