Item 1A. Risk Factors We are a defendant in class action lawsuits and shareholder derivative lawsuits which, if determined adversely, could have a material adverse affect on us. Several purported class action securities lawsuits and two purported shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed against us as described under “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We are defending against these actions vigorously; however, we do not know what the outcome of these proceedings will be and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. Furthermore, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could materially and adversely affect our operations and results. In any event, publicity surrounding the lawsuits and/or any outcome unfavorable to us could adversely affect our reputation, profitability and share price. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. We have certain obligations to indemnify our officers and directors. We have certain obligations to indemnify our officers and directors and to advance expenses to such officers and directors. Although we have purchased liability insurance for our directors and officers, if our insurance carriers should deny coverage, or if the indemnification costs exceed the insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these indemnification costs directly, which could be substantial and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the cost of our liability insurance increases significantly, or if this insurance becomes unavailable, we may not be able to maintain or increase our levels of insurance coverage for our directors and officers, which could make it difficult to attract or retain qualified directors and officers. We are at an early stage of development. We are at an early stage of development. Our drug candidate cannabinor has completed Phase I testing and is scheduled for preliminary proof-of-principle Phase IIa testing in various pain indications during the first half of 2006. Apart from an ophthalmic product that was sold to Bausch & Lomb Incorporated in October 2001, in which we have a financial interest, most of our other potential products are early in the research and development phase, and product revenues may not be realized from the sale of any such products for at least the next several years, if at all. Many of our proposed products will require significant additional research and development efforts prior to any commercial use, including extensive preclinical and clinical testing, as well as lengthy regulatory approval. Because of the uncertain nature of the process, we cannot be sure that our research and development efforts will be successful, that our potential products will prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials or that we will develop any other commercially successful products. We have a history of operating losses and expect to sustain losses in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $145.9 million. We expect to incur operating losses over the next several years as our research and development efforts and preclinical and clinical testing activities continue. Our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability depends in part upon our ability, alone or with others, to successfully complete development of our proposed products, to obtain required regulatory approvals and to manufacture and market our products. We may not be able to obtain financing in the future. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $145.9 million. The development of our technology and potential products will require a commitment of substantial funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming research necessary to develop and optimize our technology, and ultimately, to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: 20 • continued scientific progress in the research and development of our technology and drug programs; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with others for drug development; • progress with preclinical and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • changes in our existing research relationships; and • effective product commercialization activities and arrangements. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, combined with research and development grants and investment income should be sufficient to fund our continuing operations beyond December 31, 2006. We are also continuing to actively pursue various funding options, including equity offerings, strategic corporate alliances, business combinations and product-related research and development limited partnerships, to obtain the additional financing which we require to continue developing our products and ultimately bring them to market. We may not be able to obtain additional financing when needed, if at all. If we are unable to raise adequate financing in the future, our long term operations will need to be scaled-back or discontinued. Our product candidates may not successfully complete clinical trials required for commercialization, and as a result our business may never achieve profitability. To obtain regulatory approvals needed for the sale of our drug candidates, we must demonstrate through testing and clinical trials that each drug candidate is both safe and effective for the human population that it was intended to treat. In general, two successful Phase III clinical trials are required. The clinical trial process is complex and the regulatory environment varies widely from country to country. Positive results from testing and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in the Phase III human clinical trials. Many companies in our industry have suffered significant setbacks in Phase III, potentially pivotal clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The results from our trials, if any, may show that our drug candidates produce undesirable side effects in humans or that our drug candidates are not safe or effective or not safe or effective enough to compete in the marketplace. Such results could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a drug candidate. Moreover, we, the FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks or that our drug candidates are not safe or effective enough. Clinical trials are lengthy and expensive. They require adequate supplies of drug substance and sufficient patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population, • the nature of the protocol (i.e., how the drug is given, and the size and frequency of the dose and use of placebo control), • the proximity of patients to clinical sites, and • the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial (i.e., age group, level of symptoms, concomitant diseases or medications etc.). Delays in patient enrollment or negative trial outcomes can result in increased costs and longer development times. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials, we may not be able to file any required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and we may not receive regulatory approval for the particular drug candidate that was tested. 21 In addition, if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities require additional clinical trials, we could face increased costs and significant development delays. Changes in regulatory policy or additional regulations adopted during product development and regulatory review of information we submit could also result in delays or rejections. Our clinical trials depend on third party investigators who are outside our control. We depend upon the personnel of third party independent investigators to conduct our clinical trials. Such personnel are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount of time or resources that they devote to our programs. They may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If such third-party personnel fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. Such third-party investigators may also have relationships with other commercial entities that compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We face extensive governmental regulation and any failure to adequately comply could prevent or delay product approval or cause the disallowance of our products after approval. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose many requirements on the introduction of new drugs through lengthy and detailed clinical testing procedures, and other costly and time consuming compliance procedures. These requirements make it difficult to estimate when any of our products in development will be available commercially, if at all. In addition, the FDA or other comparable agencies in foreign countries may impose additional requirements in the future that could further delay or even stop the commercialization of our products in development. Our proprietary compounds in development require substantial clinical trials and FDA review as new drugs. Even if we successfully enroll patients in our clinical trials, patients may not respond to our potential drug products. We think it is prudent to expect setbacks and possible product failures. Failure to comply with the regulations applicable to such testing may delay, suspend or cancel our clinical trials, or the FDA might not accept the test results. The FDA, or any comparable regulatory agency in another country, may suspend clinical trials at any time if it concludes that the trials expose subjects participating in such trials to unacceptable health risks. Further, human clinical testing may not show any current or future product candidate to be safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable regulatory agencies or the data derived therefrom may be unsuitable for submission to the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We cannot predict with certainty when we might submit any of our proposed products currently under development for regulatory review. Once we submit a proposed product for review, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not issue their approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we are delayed or fail to obtain such approvals, our business may be damaged due to the resulting inability to generate revenues from the sale of such product. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, either prior to approval or in marketing our products after approval, we could be subject to regulatory or judicial enforcement actions. These actions could result in: • product recalls or seizures; • injunctions; • criminal prosecution; • refusals to approve new products and withdrawal of existing approvals; and • enhanced exposure to product liabilities. 22 We may need to find collaborative partners. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing, manufacture, marketing and commercialization of our products includes the use of collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. Due to the often unpredictable nature of the collaboration process, we cannot be sure that any present or future collaborative agreements will be successful. To the extent we choose not to or are not able to establish such arrangements, we would experience increased capital requirements. In addition, we may encounter significant delays in introducing our products currently under development into certain markets or find that the development, manufacture, or sale of those products is hindered by the absence of collaborative agreements due to the relatively small size of our company as compared with that of some of our potential competitors. Our technologies are subject to licenses and termination of the licenses would seriously harm our business. We are the licensee under a license agreement with YISSUM Research Development Company of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem relating to certain neuroprotective agents. We also have assigned our rights as licensee to Bausch & Lomb under our license agreement with Dr. Bodor relating to ophthalmic compounds. The license agreements generally require the licensee to pay royalties on the sale of products developed from the licensed technologies, fees on revenues from sublicensees, where applicable, and the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. Should we or Bausch & Lomb default on the respective obligations to YISSUM or to Dr. Bodor, the licenses could terminate, which would be detrimental to our operations and prospects due to our dependence on these technologies as a future source of revenue. The value of our research could diminish if we cannot protect or enforce our intellectual property rights adequately. We actively pursue both domestic and foreign patent protection for our proprietary products and technologies. We have filed for patent protection for our technologies in all markets we believe to be important for the development and commercialization of our drug products; however, our patents may not protect us against our competitors. We may have to file suit to protect our patents or to defend our use of our patents against infringement claims brought by others. Because we have limited cash resources, we may not be able to afford to pursue or defend against litigation in order to protect our patent rights. As a result, while we currently have no specific concerns about gaps in our intellectual property portfolio, we recognize that for companies like Pharmos, where intellectual property constitutes a key asset, there is always a risk that a third party could assert a patent infringement claim or commence a patent interference action. Defending against any such claims or actions could be very costly to Pharmos, even if they were without merit. We also rely on trade secret protection for our unpatented proprietary technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we enter into proprietary information agreements with our employees and consultants, these agreements may not successfully protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We face large competitors and our limited financial and research resources may limit our ability to develop and market new products. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Pharmos competes with a number of pharmaceutical companies that have financial, technical and marketing resources that are significantly greater than those of Pharmos. Some companies with established positions in the pharmaceutical industry may be better equipped than Pharmos to develop, market and distribute products in the global markets Pharmos is seeking to enter. A significant amount of pharmaceutical research is also being carried out at universities and other not-for-profit research organizations. These institutions are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their findings and are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for the use of technology they have developed. They may also market competitive commercial products on their own or through joint ventures and will compete with Pharmos in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. Further, these institutions will compete with Pharmos in recruiting qualified patients for enrollment in their trials. Pharmos is pursuing areas of product development in which there is a potential for extensive technological innovation. Pharmos’ competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective than those of Pharmos. Rapid technological change or developments by others may result in Pharmos’ potential products becoming obsolete or non-competitive. 23 We lack manufacturing capability. Other than for the production of clinical trial material, we currently do not have manufacturing facilities. Should any of our products receive approval for marketing, we would likely need to find third party manufacturers to assist in their production. If we should be unable to find such manufacturers with which to work on commercially reasonable terms, it could delay or restrict any potential revenues from such products. We use hazardous materials in our research. As with most other pharmaceutical companies, our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials. Our laboratories store and/or produce carbon monoxide, nitric acid and ammonia. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by government regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result which may or may not be covered insurance. We have certain anti-takeover provisions and are also subject to certain Nevada anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us or for stockholders to replace or remove current management. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that imposes a significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our board. In addition, our by-laws provide for the division of our board into three classes serving staggered terms and our charter documents authorize our board to issue up to 1,250,000 shares of preferred stock. Moreover, certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law that limit our ability to enter into “business combinations” with certain “interested shareholders” and limit the voting rights of those stockholders who obtain “control shares” may also act to inhibit a hostile acquisition of our company. All of these provisions described above are likely to discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a transaction resulting in a change in control. In addition, the existence of these provisions could prevent or frustrate stockholder attempts to replace or remove current management, who serve at the pleasure of our board. Since the “staggered” board provisions of our by-laws, as well as other by-law provisions limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings, make it difficult to replace the majority of our board at once, stockholder efforts to change the direction of our company, in the event of their dissatisfaction with the board’s or management’s performance, could be hindered. Conditions in Israel continue to be volatile. A significant part of our operations is conducted in Israel through our wholly owned subsidiary, Pharmos Ltd., and we are directly affected by economic, political and military conditions there. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. In addition, Israel, and companies doing business with Israel, has in the past been the subject of an economic boycott. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with certain Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in the unrest and terrorist activity that began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2006. The Company does not believe that the political and security situation has had any material negative impact on our business to date; however, the situation is volatile, and we cannot be sure that security and political conditions will have no such effect in the future. Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty. In the event of severe unrest or other conflict, individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of some of our employees due to military service. 24 Pharmos Ltd. has received funding from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israel Ministry of Industry and Trade relating to various technologies for the design and development of drugs and diagnostic kits. This funding prohibits the transfer or license of know-how and the manufacture of resulting products outside of Israel without the permission of the Chief Scientist. Although we believe that the Chief Scientist does not unreasonably withhold this permission if the request is based upon commercially justified circumstances and any royalty obligations to the Chief Scientist are sufficiently assured, the matter is solely within his discretion and we cannot be sure that such consent, if requested, would be granted upon terms satisfactory to us or granted at all. Without such consent, we would be unable to manufacture any products developed by this research outside of Israel, which may greatly restrict any potential revenues from such products. The price of our Common Stock may experience volatility The trading price of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in our quarterly operating results, the failure of trial results, our the failure to bring products to market, conditions in the industry, and the outlook for the industry as a whole or general market or economic conditions. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many companies, often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Such market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the market price for our securities. 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 