Item 1A. Risk Factors We are very largely dependent upon the success of our lead drug candidate, Dextofiosopam, currently being developed for Irritable Bowel Syndrome, for diarrhea predominant patients. We currently have one product candidate, Dextofisopam, that has completed Phase 2b clinical trials. Our other drug candidate assets are in earlier stages of development and are not currently being developed. Our primary focus is on the development and partnering of Dextofisopam and we need to secure a partnership arrangement for Dextofisopam with a pharmaceutical company with greater scientific and financial resources than we have. If we fail to secure a partnership arrangement, or raise additional capital, our operations will need to be scaled back or discontinued. We closed our operations in Israel in late 2008 and those earlier stage assets are available for licensing. We are at an early stage of development. We are at an early stage of development. Our sole product candidate, Dextofisopam, has completed a Phase 2b trial for the treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). While the trial did not meet the primary endpoint, the drug treatment group at 200 mg demonstrated activity and secondary response variables of adequate relief of abdominal pain and discomfort, and overall IBS symptoms ratings showed statistical significance and trends favoring the Dextofisopam group compared to placebo. Although the primary efficacy variable did not reach statistical significance, the percentage responding for the Dextofisopam 200 mg group was higher than that observed in the successful Phase 2a trial. However, the placebo was also higher than the Phase 2a trial. We plan to seek a pharmaceutical partner with the appropriate GI clinical and scientific expertise for further development of Dextofisopam; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find such a partner. We have no other products in development. We will need to raise additional capital. Our ability to operate as a going concern is dependent upon raising adequate financing or securing a partnership arrangement for Dextofisopam. Except for 2001, the Company has experienced operating losses every year since inception in funding the research, development and clinical testing of our drug candidates. The Company had an accumulated deficit of $211.4 million as of December 31, 2010 and expects to continue to incur losses going forward. Such losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development and from general and administrative expenses. Previously the Company had financed its operations with public and private offerings of securities, advances and other funding pursuant to an earlier marketing agreement with Bausch & Lomb, grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of Israel, research contracts, the sale of a portion of its New Jersey net operating loss carryforwards (NOL’s), and interest income. During 2010 the Company was awarded a cash grant of $244,000 under the Federal Qualifying Therapeutic Discovery Project for the further development of Dextofisopam. The Company had approximately $3.1 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2010. However, the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is largely dependent upon achieving a collaboration with a pharmaceutical partner or raising additional capital to either advance its lead compound, Dextofisopam, for the treatment of IBS or to advance other earlier stage intellectual property assets. The Company has in the past pursued various funding and financing options; however management believes that future funding or financing options may be challenging because of the current environment. 14 As the Company does not currently have the finances and resources to complete full clinical trials for its lead compound, Dextofisopam, it may decide to embark on smaller clinical trials for Dextofisopam or commence pre-clinical development on its other intellectual property assets which could further reduce the company’s current resources. As such these factors raise substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from this uncertainty. We have been delisted from Nasdaq. On March 13, 2009, the Company was officially delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, and is currently trading on the OTCBB pink sheets. The Company was not in compliance with the minimum $2,500,000 stockholders’ requirement for continued listing and was unable to comply during the grace period extended by Nasdaq. As a result of trading on the OTCBB pink sheets, liquidity for our common stock may be significantly decreased which could reduce trading price and increase the transaction costs of trading shares of the company’s common stock. The price of our Common Stock may experience volatility. The trading price of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to variations in our quarterly operating results, the failure of trial results, the failure to bring products to market, conditions in the industry, and the outlook for the industry as a whole or general market or economic conditions. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many companies, often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Such market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the market price for our securities. We have certain obligations to indemnify our officers and directors. We have certain obligations to indemnify our officers and directors and to advance expenses to such officers and directors. Although we have purchased liability insurance for our directors and officers, if our insurance carriers should deny coverage, or if the indemnification costs exceed the insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these indemnification costs directly, which could be substantial and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the cost of our liability insurance increases significantly, or if this insurance becomes unavailable, we may not be able to maintain or increase our levels of insurance coverage for our directors and officers, which could make it difficult to attract or retain qualified directors and officers. We have a history of operating losses and expect to sustain losses in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $211 million. We expect to incur operating losses over the next several years as our research and development efforts and preclinical and clinical testing activities continue. Our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability depends in part upon our ability, alone or with others, to successfully complete development of our proposed products, to obtain required regulatory approvals and to manufacture and market our products. 15 Our product candidates may not successfully complete clinical trials required for commercialization, and as a result our business may never achieve profitability. To obtain regulatory approvals needed for the sale of our drug candidates, we must demonstrate through testing and clinical trials that each drug candidate is both safe and effective for the human population that it was intended to treat. In general, two successful Phase III clinical trials are required. The clinical trial process is complex and the regulatory environment varies widely from country to country. Positive results from testing and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in the Phase III human clinical trials. Many companies in our industry have suffered significant setbacks in Phase III, potentially pivotal clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The results from our trials, if any, may show that our drug candidates produce undesirable side effects in humans or that our drug candidates are not safe or effective or not safe or effective enough to compete in the marketplace. Such results could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a drug candidate. Moreover, we, the FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks or that our drug candidates are not safe or effective enough. Clinical trials are lengthy and expensive. They require adequate supplies of drug substance and sufficient patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: · the size of the patient population, · the nature of the protocol (i.e., how the drug is given, and the size and frequency of the dose and use of placebo control), · the proximity of patients to clinical sites, and · the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial (i.e., age group, level of symptoms, concomitant diseases or medications etc.). Delays in patient enrollment or negative trial outcomes can result in increased costs and longer development times. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials, we may not be able to file any required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and we may not receive regulatory approval for the particular drug candidate that was tested. In addition, if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities require additional clinical trials, we could face increased costs and significant development delays. Changes in regulatory policy or additional regulations adopted during product development and regulatory review of information we submit could also result in delays or rejections. Our clinical trials depend on third party investigators who are outside our control. We depend upon the personnel of third party independent investigators to conduct our clinical trials. Such personnel are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount of time or resources that they devote to our programs. They may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If such third-party personnel fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. Such third-party investigators may also have relationships with other commercial entities that compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We face extensive governmental regulation and any failure to adequately comply could prevent or delay product approval or cause the disallowance of our products after approval. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose many requirements on the introduction of new drugs through lengthy and detailed clinical testing procedures, and other costly and time consuming compliance procedures. These requirements make it difficult to estimate when any of our products in development will be available commercially, if at all. In addition, the FDA or other comparable agencies in foreign countries may impose additional requirements in the future that could further delay or even stop the commercialization of our products in development. 16 Our proprietary compounds in development require substantial clinical trials and FDA review as new drugs. Even if we successfully enroll patients in our clinical trials, patients may not respond to our potential drug products. We think it is prudent to expect setbacks and possible product failures. Failure to comply with the regulations applicable to such testing may delay, suspend or cancel our clinical trials, or the FDA might not accept the test results. The FDA, or any comparable regulatory agency in another country, may suspend clinical trials at any time if it concludes that the trials expose subjects participating in such trials to unacceptable health risks. Further, human clinical testing may not show any current or future product candidate to be safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable regulatory agencies or the data derived there from may be unsuitable for submission to the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We cannot predict with certainty when we might submit any of our proposed products currently under development for regulatory review. Once we submit a proposed product for review, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not issue their approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we are delayed or fail to obtain such approvals, our business may be damaged due to the resulting inability to generate revenues from the sale of such product. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, either prior to approval or in marketing our products after approval, we could be subject to regulatory or judicial enforcement actions. These actions could result in: · injunctions; · criminal prosecution; · refusals to approve new products and withdrawal of existing approvals; and · enhanced exposure to product liabilities. We need to find collaborative partners. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing, manufacture, marketing and commercialization of our products includes the use of collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. Due to the often unpredictable nature of the collaboration process, we cannot be sure that any present or future collaborative agreements will be successful. To the extent we choose not to or are not able to establish such arrangements, we would experience increased capital requirements. In addition, we may encounter significant delays in introducing our products currently under development into certain markets or find that the development, manufacture, or sale of those products is hindered by the absence of collaborative agreements due to the relatively small size of our company as compared with that of some of our potential competitors. The value of our research could diminish if we cannot protect or enforce our intellectual property rights adequately. We actively pursue both domestic and foreign patent protection for our proprietary products and technologies. We have filed for patent protection for our technologies in all markets we believe to be important for the development and commercialization of our drug products; however, our patents may not protect us against our competitors. We may have to file suit to protect our patents or to defend our use of our patents against infringement claims brought by others. Because we have limited cash resources, we may not be able to afford to pursue or defend against litigation in order to protect our patent rights. As a result, while we currently have no specific concerns about gaps in our intellectual property portfolio, we recognize that for companies like ours, where intellectual property constitutes a key asset, there is always a risk that a third party could assert a patent infringement claim or commence a patent interference action. Defending against any such claims or actions could be very costly to us, even if they were without merit. We also rely on trade secret protection for our unpatented proprietary technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we enter into proprietary information agreements with our employees and consultants, these agreements may not successfully protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. 17 We face large competitors and our limited financial and research resources may limit our ability to develop and market new products. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. We compete with a number of pharmaceutical companies that have financial, technical and marketing resources that are significantly greater than ours. Some companies with established positions in the pharmaceutical industry may be better equipped than we are to develop, market and distribute products in the global markets we seek to enter. A significant amount of pharmaceutical research is also being carried out at universities and other not-for-profit research organizations. These institutions are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their findings and are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for the use of technology they have developed. They may also market competitive commercial products on their own or through joint ventures and may compete with us in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. Further, these institutions may compete with us in recruiting qualified patients for enrollment in their trials. We are pursuing areas of product development in which there is a potential for extensive technological innovation. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective than those we develop. Rapid technological change or developments by others may result in our potential products becoming obsolete or non-competitive. We lack manufacturing capability. We currently do not have manufacturing facilities. Should any of our products receive approval for marketing, we would likely need to find third party manufacturers to assist in their production. If we should be unable to find such manufacturers with which to work on commercially reasonable terms, it could delay or restrict any potential revenues from such products. We use hazardous materials in our research. As with most other pharmaceutical companies, our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials. Our laboratories store and/or produce carbon monoxide, nitric acid and ammonia. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by government regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages which may or may not be covered by insurance. We have certain anti-takeover provisions and are also subject to certain Nevada anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us or for stockholders to replace or remove current management. Further, the board controls a majority of the outstanding shares. After the equity financing in April 2009, the current board represents 60% of the outstanding shares and on a fully diluted basis a total of 68% as of December 31, 2010. Additionally, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that imposes a significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our board. Moreover, certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law that limit our ability to enter into “business combinations” with certain “interested shareholders” and limit the voting rights of those stockholders who obtain “control shares” may also act to inhibit a hostile acquisition of our company. All of these provisions described above are likely to discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a transaction resulting in a change in control. 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 