Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our future operating results are subject to a number of material risks and contingencies. Forward-looking statements in this report reflect the Company’s current views and expectations. However, such forward-looking statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties described herein which may cause future operating results to differ materially from currently anticipated results. Our future results depend upon our ability to successfully introduce new products. We operate in a market which is subject to continuing technological change. In order to stay abreast of new technological developments, we must continually improve our products. Moreover, there is significant price pressure on our primary product line, oxygen conservers. As a result, in order to mitigate the price pressure on our conservers, we must introduce innovative new products and we intend to expand our product offerings. There are a number of significant risks involved with new product introductions. Problems encountered in the design and development of new products or in obtaining regulatory clearances to 12 Table of Contents market the products may impair our ability to introduce any new product in a timely manner. Competitors may leapfrog our development efforts, particularly if our development efforts are delayed. The commercial success of any new products we do introduce will depend upon the health care community’s perception of such products’ capabilities, clinical efficacy and benefit to patients. In addition, prospective sales will be impacted by the degree of acceptance achieved among home care providers and patients requiring supplementary oxygen. Our prospective customers may be reluctant to try unproven products which we introduce. Our ability to successfully introduce new products in a new market sector such as the sleep disorder market will also be complicated by our lack of experience and our lack of an established reputation in this market. Thus, the success of any new products we may introduce is unpredictable and our future results may suffer if we are unable to successfully introduce new products. Our operating results, profitability and operating margins have been adversely affected by price pressure on our principal products. During the past several years, there has been significant price pressure on oxygen conservers and therapeutic devices. Thus, though our unit sales of conservers and therapeutic devices in fiscal 2007 showed a 10.1% decline, revenues from the sales of such products declined by 16.9%. This trend is magnified by the continuing consolidation of the home care industry as national chains typically negotiate for quantity discounts. We expect continuing price pressure on our principal products for the foreseeable future. We are highly dependent upon a limited number of large customers, which may increase the volatility of our future operating results. The home health care industry is undergoing significant consolidation. As a result, the market for our products is increasingly influenced by major national chains. Four major national chains accounted for 49% of our sales for the year ended March 31, 2007, up from 43% in the prior year. One customer accounted for 43%, 36% and 36% for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. A second customer accounted for 11% of sales for the year ended March 31, 2005. One non-chain customer accounted for 11% of sales for the year ended March 31, 2006. Future sales may be increasingly dependent upon a limited number of customers which increase the risk that our financial performance may be adversely affected if one or more of these customers reduces their purchases of our products or terminates its relationship with us. During the past two years, a significant decline in orders from one national chain contributed to our decline in revenues. We are dependent upon a single product line, which increases our vulnerability to adverse developments affecting the market for supplementary oxygen. Although we market a range of products, all of our current products are designed for patients requiring supplemental oxygen. Unlike some of our competitors, we are not a diversified provider of home health care products. As a result, our future performance is dependent upon developments affecting this narrow segment of the health care market. Adverse regulatory or economic developments affecting the market for supplemental oxygen will have a significant impact on our performance. Changes and prospective changes in the administration of health care may disrupt the market for our products, resulting in decreased profitability. Approximately 80% of home health care patients are covered by Medicare and other government programs. Federal law has altered the payment rates available to providers of Medicare services. The Medicare Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 has resulted in several years of reductions in reimbursement for home oxygen. In February 2006, reimbursement procedures were modified again, with a new requirement that ownership of home oxygen equipment be transferred to the patient after 36 13 Table of Contents months. New proposals related to reimbursement for home health care are routinely introduced in Congress. As a result, we expect changes in reimbursement policies to continue to exert downward pressure on the average selling price of our products. Moreover, the uncertainty resulting from constant change in reimbursement policies has had a deleterious effect upon our market, causing many home care providers to delay or cut back their product purchase plans as they seek to evaluate the impact of the new policies. We operate in a highly competitive environment which has contributed to our reduced operating margins. Our success in the early 1990s drew a significant number of competitors into the home oxygen market. Some of these competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources compared with those of the Company. While we believe that our product features and reputation for quality will continue to be competitive advantages, we note that our market is increasingly dominated by price competition. Some of our competitors have successfully introduced lower priced products that do not provide oxygen conserving capabilities comparable to our products. We expect competition to remain keen, with continuing emphasis on price competition for oxygen conservers and therapeutic devices. If we are unable to stay abreast of continuing technological change, our products may become obsolete, resulting in a decline in sales and profitability. The home health care industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Our products may become obsolete if we do not stay abreast of such changes and introduce new and improved products. We have limited internal research and development capabilities. Historically, we have contracted with outside parties to develop new products. Some of our competitors have substantially greater funds and facilities to pursue development of new products and technologies. If we are unable to maintain our technological edge, our product sales will likely decline, as will our profitability. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could result in a loss of market share. The success of our business is dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to develop, acquire and protect proprietary technologies related to the delivery of supplementary oxygen. We pursue a policy of protecting our intellectual property rights through a combination of patents, trademarks, license agreements, confidentiality agreements and protection of trade secrets. To the extent that our products do not receive patent protection, competitors may be able to market substantially similar products, thereby eroding our market share. Moreover, claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third party could impair our ability to sell certain products or could require us to pay a license fee, thereby increasing our costs. Our profitability would be adversely affected if we incur uninsured losses due to product liability claims. The nature of our business subjects us to potential legal actions asserting that we are liable for personal injury or property loss due to alleged defects in our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance in an amount which we believe to be customary for our size, there can be no assurance that the insurance will prove sufficient to cover the costs of defense and/or adverse judgments entered against the Company. To date, we have not experienced any significant losses due to product liability claims. However, given the use of our products by infirm patients, there is a continuing risk that such claims will be asserted against us. Our dependence upon third party suppliers exposes us to the risk that our ability to deliver 14 Table of Contents products may be adversely affected if the suppliers fail to deliver quality components on a timely basis. While we perform most of our manufacturing internally, some of our products depend upon components or processes provided by independent companies. We expect to continue to use outside firms for various processes for the foreseeable future. From time to time, we have experienced problems with the reliability of components produced by third party suppliers. We do not have any long-term supply contracts that are not readily terminable, and we believe there are alternative sources of supply with respect to all the components we acquire from third parties. Nonetheless, any reliability or quality problem encountered with a supplier could disrupt our manufacturing process, thereby delaying our ability to deliver timely product and potentially harming our reputation with our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 