Risk Factors.” Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Although no such lawsuits are currently pending against us and we are not aware that any such lawsuit is threatened to be filed in the future, there is no assurance that we will not be sued based on fluctuations in the price of our common stock. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial cost and divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, any settlement or adverse determination of these lawsuits could subject us to significant liabilities. Our dividend policy is subject to change. From the second quarter of fiscal 2008 through the second quarter of fiscal 2013, our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share. For the third quarter of fiscal 2013, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share and also declared a special accelerated dividend of $0.20 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock. The accelerated dividend was intended to be in lieu of the regular quarterly dividends that would have historically been declared in February and May of that year. Subsequent to the declaration of the accelerated dividend, our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends of $0.10 per share. We currently expect to declare and pay cash dividends at this level on a quarterly basis in the future. However, our dividend policy may be affected by, among other things, our views on business conditions, our financial position, earnings, earnings outlook, capital spending plans and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant at that time. Our dividend policy may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A change in our dividend policy could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may decline due to shares eligible for future sale or actual future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Current directors and executive officers of the Company as a group beneficially owned approximately 5.8% of our Class A common shares as of June 30, 2014. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by these persons, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 