Risk Factors.” Fluctuations in the price of our common stock may expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Although no such lawsuits are currently pending against us and we are not aware that any such lawsuit is threatened to be filed in the future, there is no assurance that we will not be sued based on fluctuations in the price of our common stock. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial cost and divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, any settlement or adverse determination of these lawsuits could subject us to significant liabilities. Our dividend policy is subject to change. Since the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share. We currently expect to declare and pay cash dividends at this level on a quarterly basis in the future. However, our dividend policy may be affected by, among other things, our views on business conditions, our financial position, earnings, earnings outlook, capital spending plans and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant at that time. Our dividend policy may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A change in our dividend policy could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Our principal shareholders may control our management decisions. James C. Edenfield, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Thomas L. Newberry, Chairman of the Board of Directors, own 100% of our outstanding Class B common shares between them, giving them the right to elect a majority of the Board of Directors. Moreover, Class B common shares have additional voting rights that currently give Mr. Edenfield and Dr. Newberry sufficient voting power to assure the approval of other shareholder voting issues if both of them vote in favor of those issues. Mr. Edenfield and Dr. Newberry have reported in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that they constitute a group, for voting purposes. Current directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned approximately 8.2% of our Class A common shares as of June 30, 2011. Mr. Edenfield, Dr. Newberry and members of their immediate families currently constitute four of the seven members of the Board, and thus have significant influence in directing the actions of the Board of Directors and all other matters requiring approval or acquiescence by shareholders, including the composition of our Board of Directors, the approval of mergers and other business combinations, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a substantial sale of assets, a merger or similar corporate transaction or a non-negotiated takeover attempt. Such concentration of ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a purchase offer that other shareholders might find favorable, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Georgia law may inhibit a takeover of our company. Our basic corporate documents and Georgia law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The price of our common stock may decline due to shares eligible for future sale or actual future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Current directors and executive officers of the Company as a group beneficially owned approximately 8.2% of our Class A common shares as of June 30, 2011. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by these persons, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Because our Class B shareholders own a controlling interest and act as a group, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules governing companies with stock quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Our Board of Directors does not have a majority of independent directors, and our compensation committee is not required to consist entirely of independent directors. We are not required to have, and have not chosen to establish, a nominating committee. Accordingly, our procedures for approving significant corporate decisions are not subject to the same corporate governance requirements as non-controlled companies with stock quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 