Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-looking statements in this report reflect the Company’s current views and expectations. However, such forward looking statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties described herein which may cause future operating results to differ materially from currently anticipated results. We depend upon our unproven products for the sleep disorder market for our future success. Our future results will depend upon our ability to successfully complete the development of our sleep disorder products and our ability to commercially introduce such products. These products are electro-mechanical devices designed to be used by physicians and sleep clinics to diagnose and treat sleep 8 disorders such as apnea. All of our historical revenues have been generated from the sale of oxygen therapy products. None of our sleep disorder products are currently available on a commercial basis. Several remain in the development stage. We currently expect to begin marketing the first of our sleep disorder products in the third calendar quarter of 2008. We face significant challenges in executing our plan to enter the sleep disorder market. None of our sleep disorder products have been commercially proven and we do not have an established presence in this sector of the health care market. We will face competition from several well established manufacturers of products for the sleep disorder market, all of whom have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Our ability to enter this market will depend upon proving the efficacy of our products, persuading physicians, sleep clinics and others of the efficacy and technical advantages which we believe our sleep disorder products will offer, developing a strategy for marketing our sleep disorder products and obtaining the financial resources to support these efforts. As with any business which has not established its commercial viability, there is a high risk that we will fail in our efforts to implement this strategy. Most of our sleep disorder products remain in the development stage and we do not know when, if ever, we will generate any revenues from such products. Most of our products for the sleep disorder market remain in the development stage. Before we can commercially introduce such products, we must complete the development process, undertake clinical tests to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of such products, modify the products to the extent that clinical testing indicates further improvements are necessary and obtain marketing approval from the Food & Drug Administration. Each of these steps is subject to multiple risks which could prevent or delay the commercial introduction of such products. As a result, it is not possible for us to predict when, if ever, we will generate revenues from the sale of such products. We will require additional financial resources to implement our strategy with respect to the sleep disorder market. Failure to obtain such resources will diminish our prospects for success. In order to have adequate funding to expedite the development and commercialization of our sleep disorder products, we will require additional funding. Although several potential investors and strategic partners have expressed a preliminary interest in our sleep disorder products, we do not currently have in place any commitments for funding to support our strategy for the sleep disorder market. If such funding is not obtained, then we will be dependent upon the net proceeds generated by the Asset Sale and the sale of our transfilling assets. The net proceeds from the sale of our oxygen conserver assets and the transfilling assets, after payment of all of our secured obligations, termination expenses and transaction fees, are not sufficient to enable us to continue our operations for the next 12 months. If we do raise additional funding through the sale of securities to support our sleep disorder strategy, the terms of any such financing may significantly dilute the equity interests of our current shareholders. Moreover, such funding may be in the form of senior equity with liquidation and other preferences over our common stock. The funding could also be in the form of convertible or non-convertible debt which could place significant restrictions upon our business operations. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds to implement our strategy for the sleep disorder market, then our prospects for success will be materially diminished as we will lack the ability to aggressively market our sleep disorder products. Our future results will depend upon our ability to continue to successfully introduce new products. Difficulties encountered in introducing new products will harm our future operating results. The sleep disorder market is subject to continuing technological change. Our products may become obsolete if we do not stay abreast of such changes and introduce new and improved products. 9 There are a number of significant risks involved with new product introductions. Problems encountered in the design and development of new products or in obtaining regulatory clearances to market the products may impair our ability to introduce any new product in a timely manner. Competitors may leapfrog our development efforts, particularly if our development efforts are delayed. The commercial success of any new products we do introduce will depend upon the health care community’s perception of such products’ capabilities, clinical efficacy and benefit to patients. In addition, prospective sales will be impacted by the degree of acceptance achieved among patients suffering from sleep disorders. Our prospective customers may be reluctant to try unproven products which we introduce. Our ability to successfully introduce new products in a new market sector such as the sleep disorder market will also be complicated by our lack of experience and our lack of an established reputation in this market. Thus, the success of any new products we may introduce is unpredictable and our future results may suffer if we are unable to successfully introduce new products. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could hurt our ability to compete in the sleep disorder market. The success of our strategy for the sleep disorder market is dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to develop products that have what we believe will be certain technical advantages over currently available sleep disorder products. Such technical advantages are derived from proprietary technologies and rights to patented inventions. Our ability to adequately protect such intellectual property rights is therefore crucial to our potential success in the sleep disorder market. We pursue a policy of protecting our intellectual property rights through a combination of patents, trademarks, license agreements, confidentiality agreements and protection of trade secrets. To the extent that our products do not receive patent protection, competitors may be able to market substantially similar products, thereby eroding our potential market share. Moreover, claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third party could impair our ability to sell certain products or could require us to pay license fees, thereby increasing our costs. If we are unable to stay abreast of continuing technological change, our products may become obsolete, resulting in a decline in sales and profitability. The health care industry is characterized by rapid technological change. We have limited internal research and development capabilities. Historically, we have contracted with outside parties to develop new products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater funds and facilities to pursue development of new products and technologies. If we are unable to maintain our technological edge, our product sales will suffer and we may not achieve profitability. Our operating results would be adversely affected if we incur uninsured losses due to product liability claims. The nature of our business subjects us to potential legal actions asserting that we are liable for personal injury or property loss due to alleged defects in our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance in an amount which we believe to be customary for our size, there can be no assurance that the insurance will prove sufficient to cover the costs of defense and/or adverse judgments entered against the Company. To date, we have not experienced any significant losses due to product liability claims. However, given the use of our products by infirm patients, there is a continuing risk that such claims will be asserted against us. 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 