risk factors that could affect our future performance. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those we discuss under the section captioned “Factors Affecting Future Performance of Our Business and Our Stock Price” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K as well as the cautionary statements and other factors that we discuss in other sections of this Form 10-K. Company Overview American Software, Inc. (“American Software” or the “Company”) was incorporated as a Georgia corporation in 1970. We develop, market and support a portfolio of software and services that deliver enterprise management and collaborative supply chain solutions to the global marketplace. Our software and services are designed to bring business value to enterprises by supporting their operations over intranets, extranets, client/servers or the Internet. References to “the Company,” “our products,” “our software,” “our services” and similar references include the appropriate business unit actually providing the product or service. We provide our software solutions through three major business segments, which are further broken down into a total of four major product and service groups. The three business segments are (1) Collaborative Supply Chain Management, (2) Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), and (3) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting. The Collaborative Supply Chain Management segment consists of Logility, Inc., an 89% owned (as of the date of this filing), subsidiary which provides collaborative supply chain solutions to streamline and optimize the 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements production, distribution and management of products between trading partners. The ERP segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce, Flow Manufacturing and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) New Generation Computing (NGC), which provides industry specific business software to both retailers and manufacturers in the Apparel, Sewn Products and Furniture industries. The IT Consulting segment consists of The Proven Method, an IT staffing and consulting services firm. We also provide support for our software products, such as software enhancements, documentation, updates, customer education, consulting, systems integration services, and maintenance. On September 30, 2004, Logility acquired certain assets and the distribution channel of privately-held Demand Management, Inc. (DMI), a St. Louis-based provider of supply chain planning systems marketed under the Demand Solutions® brand. The acquisition provided more than 800 active customers which brought the Logility customer base to approximately 1,100 companies, located in 70 countries and gives Logility what is believed to be the largest installed base of supply chain planning customers among application software vendors. Logility will continue to market and sell the Demand Solutions product line through Demand Management’s existing value-added reseller distribution network. Logility will also continue to offer the Logility Voyager Solutions™ suite to its traditional target market of upper-midsize to Fortune 1000 companies with distribution-intensive supply chains. We derive revenues primarily from three sources: software licenses, services, and maintenance. We generally determine software license fees based on the number of modules, servers, users and/or sites licensed. Services and other revenues consist primarily of fees from software implementation, training, and consulting services. We bill primarily under time and materials arrangements and recognize revenues as we perform services. Maintenance agreements typically are for a one to three year term, usually commencing the time of the initial product license. We generally bill maintenance fees annually in advance under agreements with terms of one to three years, and then recognize the resulting revenues ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement. Deferred revenues represent advance payments or billings for software licenses, services and maintenance billed in advance of the time we recognize the related revenues. Our cost of revenues for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, salaries and benefits and value added reseller (VAR) commissions. Costs for maintenance and services revenues include the cost of personnel to conduct implementations, customer support and consulting, and other personnel-related expenses as well as agent commission expenses related to maintenance revenues generated by the indirect channel. Our selling expenses generally include the salary and commissions we pay to our direct sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs. Our general and administrative expenses generally include the salary and benefits we pay to executive, corporate and support personnel, as well as office rent, utilities, communications expenses, and various professional fees. Industry Background In response to increasing global competition, companies are continually seeking new ways to enhance the productivity of their operations. Computer software applications can be an effective tool for companies to re-engineer and streamline their core business processes. ERP applications help companies reduce employee headcount and increase employee utilization through recording, consolidating, and reporting the large quantities of transactional data that is generated through daily operations. Core ERP applications include automation of financials, human resources, and manufacturing functions. Included in the manufacturing function are “supply chain” applications that assist companies in managing relationships with external trading partners such as customers, suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, and retailers. Companies that effectively communicate, collaborate and integrate with their trading partners within the extended enterprise or supply chain can realize significant competitive advantages in the form of lower costs, 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements greater customer responsiveness, and increased revenue. Supply chain management refers to the process of managing the complex network of relationships that organizations maintain with external trading partners to source, manufacture and deliver goods and services to the end consumer. Supply chain management involves both the activities related to supplying products or services (source, make, move, buy, store, and deliver) as well as the sales and marketing activities that impact the demand for goods and services, such as new product introductions, promotions, pricing and forecasting. Today, several market trends are driving organizations to expand collaboration with trading partners along the supply chain. A general shift in market power has forced manufacturers and distributors to become more responsive to retailers and consumers, which has increased the demand for improved planning capabilities. At the same time, global economic conditions and competitive pressures are forcing manufacturers to reduce costs, decrease order cycle times and improve operating efficiencies. As a result, manufacturers, distributors and retailers are increasingly under pressure to better manage the supply chain as they seek to improve manufacturing efficiency and logistics operations while maintaining flexibility and responsiveness to changing market conditions and specific customer demands. These pressures are compounded by the increasing complexity and globalization of the interactions among suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers and consumers. The growth and rapid adoption of the Internet has enhanced the ability of organizations to integrate their business processes through collaborative planning to synchronize internal assets and production with external demand and supplier capabilities. Global Internet technology adoption and supply chain strategies are converging to create a competitive advantage by reducing the cost of goods sold, improving customer service, building global brands and increasing global supply chain visibility as companies move product to market quicker. Our customers’ goal is to cost effectively provide the right product in the right place at the right time at a competitive price. To leverage the Internet for commercial benefit and facilitate enhanced collaboration among the various trading partners in the supply chain, organizations are increasingly deploying business-to-business application solutions to address their planning and supply chain execution requirements. The planning function involves the use of information to facilitate the delivery of the right products on time to the correct location and at the lowest cost. The planning process focuses on demand forecasting, inventory simulation, global sourcing, distribution, transportation and manufacturing planning and scheduling. Planning software is designed to increase revenues, improve forecast accuracy, optimize production scheduling, reduce inventory costs, decrease order cycle times, reduce transportation costs, and improve customer service. The supply chain execution function addresses procuring, manufacturing, warehousing, order fulfillment and distributing products throughout the supply chain. Within the supply chain execution function, organizations are increasing their focus on the effective management of warehouse and transportation operations and the need for integration with planning systems and other enterprise applications, in order to increase the efficient and effective fulfillment of customer orders in the business-to-business and the business-to-consumer sectors. In a report entitled “Increase Profitability by Mastering Demand,” (April 22, 2004), a leading information technology analyst firm, AMR Research, stated that “increased demand visibility is achieved across the supply chain through increased collaboration with supply chain partners. With that better visibility comes perfect order performance. Inter-enterprise collaboration, a byproduct of the Demand-Driven Supply Network (DDSN), is vital to success in mastering demand in this new business context. With better demand forecast accuracy, companies average 15% lower inventories, 17% stronger perfect order fulfillment, and 35% shorter cash-to-cash cycle times.” In order to effectively manage and coordinate supply chain activities, companies require supply chain planning, global sourcing, supply chain execution, and supply chain event management software that provides for integrated communication, optimization and collaboration among the various constituents throughout the supply chain network. This enhanced collaboration synchronizes production plans with demand forecasts, thereby minimizing bottlenecks that lead to production delays, excess inventory and distribution network problems. 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, companies seek integrated planning and supply chain execution systems that further optimize the flow of products to their customers through enhanced transportation and warehouse management capabilities. Organizations are also demanding solutions that are modular and scaleable to fit the changing needs of the organization and offer rapid deployment and time-to-benefit and distribution network problems. Business Segments Segment 1—Collaborative Supply Chain Management—Logility, Inc. Our majority-owned subsidiary, Logility, Inc., provides Collaborative Supply Chain Management, an integrated set of Supply Chain planning and execution solutions. We own approximately 89% (as of the date of this filing) of the common stock of Logility, the remaining 11% being publicly held (NASDAQ: LGTY). Logility was incorporated as a Georgia corporation in 1996. Logility provides collaborative supply chain solutions to streamline and optimize the market planning, management, production and distribution of products for manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, retailers, carriers and other organizations and their respective trading partners. The supply chain refers to the complex network of business relationships with trading partners (customers, suppliers and carriers) used to forecast, source, manufacture, store, and deliver products and services to multiple locations and customers by various modes of transportation. Supply chain operations include forecasting, demand management, supply planning, sourcing, manufacturing, logistics, warehouse management, transportation and other business-to-business process management for collaborative relationships between customers, suppliers and carriers. Logility’s solutions enable enterprises to increase their market visibility to build competitive advantages and increase profitability by reducing costs, increasing revenues, improving operational efficiencies and collaborating with suppliers and customers to more effectively respond to dynamic market conditions. Leveraging its supply chain management expertise, Logility has been an innovator in developing and deploying collaborative supply chain solutions, with its first Internet-based collaborative planning solution implemented in 1996. Logility continues to invest and expand its innovative solutions, which support the Collaborative Planning, Forecasting and Replenishment (CPFR®) standards defined by the Voluntary Interindustry Commerce Standards Association (VICS). Logility’s systems also support other emerging collaborative supply chain management standards for transportation and distribution center management such as collaborative transportation management (CTM), and radio frequency identification (RFID), a technology that uses radio waves to uniquely identify items as well as packaging such as cartons, containers and pallets. Logility believes companies in distribution-intensive industries face considerable competitive pressure, which is intensified by the high cost of inventory and distribution investments, dynamically changing consumer needs, and variability in overall supply chain performance. These companies need solutions that are capable of delivering significant financial benefits by quickly solving problems that arise in sourcing, manufacturing and distribution operations. Logility’s solutions are capable of helping these companies collaborate with their trading partners to improve customer service and optimize their sourcing, manufacturing, inventory and distribution networks. With more than 1,100 customers in 70 countries, Logility is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain solutions that help small, medium, and large as well as Fortune 1000 companies realize substantial bottom-line results. Logility maintains two product suites, Logility Voyager Solutions and Demand Solutions, marketed, sold and distributed through both direct and indirect sales channels. The Logility Voyager Solutions suite of products features performance monitoring capabilities in a single Internet-based framework and provide supply chain visibility; demand, inventory and replenishment planning; supply and global sourcing optimization; manufacturing planning and scheduling; transportation planning and execution; and warehouse management. The Demand Solutions product suite provides forecasting, demand planning, replenishment and point-of-sale analysis for maximizing profits for small to midsize manufacturing, distribution and retail operations. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Logility has licensed one or more modules of Logility Voyager Solutions or Demand Solutions to companies worldwide, including Avery Dennison Corporation, Bissell, Farnell InOne, Florida Power & Light, Huhtamaki (UK) Limited, Hyundai Motor America, ICI Paints, Jockey International, Komatsu, Leviton Manufacturing Company, L’Oreal USA, Malt-O-Meal Company, Nestle Purina Petcare, Pernod-Ricard, Pfizer, Porsche, Remington Products Company, Shaw Industries, Sigma Aldrich, Standard Motor Products, The Coleman Company, Under Armour Performance Apparel, VF Corporation, and xpedx. Logility sells products and services through direct and indirect channels. Product Features: Logility Voyager Solutions Logility Voyager Solutions is an integrated software suite that provides advanced supply chain management including collaborative planning, strategic network design, optimized supply sourcing, production management, warehouse management, and collaborative logistics capabilities that are designed to increase revenues, reduce inventory costs, improve forecast accuracy, decrease order cycle times, manage global sourcing initiatives, optimize production scheduling, streamline logistics operations, reduce transportation costs and improve customer service. The Logility Voyager Solutions software suite is modular and scaleable to meet the management requirements of complex organizations involving tens of thousands of products across multiple sites. In addition, The Voyager Solutions suite readily interfaces with a broad range of existing enterprise applications deployed on a variety of Internet and client/server operating environments and platforms. Logility’s customers can implement these modules individually, as well as in combinations or as a full solution suite. Logility Voyager Solutions support multiple communications protocols and is designed to operate with industry-standard open technologies, including leading web-based and client/server environments, such as Microsoft Windows, UNIX, and iSeries (AS/400) on Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server and DB2 databases. The following summarizes key features of the Logility Voyager Solutions product suite: LOGILITY VOYAGER SOLUTIONS FOR COLLABORATIVE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT These applications allow companies to plan, manage, optimize and measure their supply chain operations and strategic trading partner relationships for direct material procurement, production, logistics and customer order fulfillment. Logility Voyager Solutions provide a performance-based architecture that allows companies to manage supply chain processes on an exception basis. Companies can proactively monitor, alert, measure and resolve critical supply chain events both within their own companies and throughout the extended value chain via the Internet. VALUE CHAIN COLLABORATION Streamline Sales and Operations Planning (S&OP) and enhance strategic trading partner relationships, Logility Voyager Solutions allows companies to accelerate and manage demand plans, direct material procurement, sourcing, production and fulfillment using the power of the Internet. Logility Voyager Collaborate™ enables companies to communicate easily across their organizations and share real-time supply chain information with external trading partners. With Voyager Collaborate, suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and retailers can use the power of collaborative business processes such as Sales and Operations Planning and built-in standards for Collaborative Planning, Forecasting and Replenishment (CPFR®) to advance enterprise wide collaboration enabled via the Internet. Logility Voyager Fulfill™ provides a private transportation exchange that extends collaboration to carriers, customers and suppliers. Customers and suppliers can see the status of their orders and shipments in transit. Carriers can easily accept or reject loads offered, bid on loads, provide up-to-the-minute shipment information, and view the payment status of prior shipments. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements DEMAND CHAIN PLANNING Logility Voyager Solutions provides the visibility to significantly improve forecasting accuracy by creating comprehensive overviews of market demand, new product introductions, promotions and inventory policies. As a result, enterprises can build plans that are more closely attuned to the market. Logility Voyager Demand Planning™ helps reconcile differences between high-level business planning and low-level product forecasting. Aligning inventory with customer demand, this solution makes it easier to boost service levels, shorten cycle times and reduce inventory obsolescence. Logility provides control to model each phase in a product’s sunrise-to-sunset lifecycle—including introduction, maturity, replacement, substitution and retirement—so that the right products are available at the point of customer demand. Voyager Demand Planning integrates the marketing department in real time into forecasting, distribution and logistics planning to calculate the impact of promotional plans and events. Logility Voyager Inventory Planning™ allows enterprises to effectively measure the tradeoff of inventory investment and desired customer service levels. This solution dynamically sets time-phased inventory targets based on specific safety stock and order quantity rules. GLOBAL SOURCING MANAGEMENT Global Sourcing Management gives companies the freedom to cost-effectively source, manufacture and distribute anywhere in the world to gain a competitive advantage without compromising quality or product availability. Voyager Value Chain Designer™ helps businesses evaluate manufacturing, distribution and strategic sourcing options. Provided with visibility into supply chain networks, enterprises can analyze capital expenditure plans, assess risk strategies and optimize global network operations. Voyager Global Sourcing automates the sourcing process via the Internet—from managing the proposal and delivering product specification package, to analyzing bids and streamlining the vendor selection process, to tracking supplier performance. Voyager Production Visibility uses collaborative time and action calendars to monitor supplier production and quality, track milestone deliverables, gain packaging and labeling compliance and provide exception-based management of global sourcing initiatives via the Internet. Voyager Supplier Logistics provides Advanced Ship Notice (ASN) and tracks supplier shipments from global manufacturing locations to provide businesses with greater visibility of inbound logistics and product availability. SUPPLY CHAIN PLANNING Logility Voyager Solutions optimize material, inventory, production and distribution assets by synchronizing supply and demand. Simultaneously, multiple supply chain planning models generate plans based on constraints as well as various sourcing, production and distribution options. Voyager Supply Planning™ optimizes complex sourcing and production decisions to balance supply, manufacturing and distribution constraints based on corporate goals for maximizing profit or minimizing costs. Voyager Replenishment Planning™ provides visibility of future customer demands, corresponding product and material requirements, and the actions suppliers must take to satisfy those demands. Voyager Manufacturing Planning™ helps create valid production plans for single- or multi-site capacity constrained environments, providing lower costs, fewer setups and increased product availability. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements SUPPLY CHAIN EXECUTION Logility Voyager Solutions provide industry-leading capabilities for optimizing both warehouse and transportation operations. These solutions systematically balance logistics strategies, customer service policies, carrier effectiveness, inventory management, and radio frequency identification (RFID) solutions to spur improvements that favorably impact profitability. Voyager WarehousePRO® provides shipping and inventory accuracy by optimizing the flow of materials and information through distribution centers. WarehousePRO helps cut operating costs and improve productivity, increase order fill rates, optimize space utilization and improve customer service. This solution is highly flexible and quickly adapts to changing business requirements. WarehousePRO features an extensive workflow library incorporating industry-specific best-practice templates and supports RFID technology for effective warehousing techniques. With built-in standard interfaces to major radio frequency data collection systems, this software delivers more accurate inventory accountability and improved warehouse efficiency for a paperless warehouse environment. Voyager Transportation Planning and Management™ provides a performance-driven, multi-modal solution for dramatic savings of time, effort and money. It enables totally automated shipment planning, shipment execution and freight accounting. User workflows, driven by exceptions, increase visibility and accelerate more proactive communications among trading partners. The Optimization Engine evaluates logical alternatives for grouping and shipping orders considering business rules, consolidation parameters, carriers, rates, and date/time requirements. Product Features: Demand Solutions The Demand Solutions application suite makes it easier to predict future demand and make informed decisions to optimize inventory turns, customer service levels and profitability. Demand Solutions is a complete time-phased, multi-tiered planning and replenishment system for monthly, weekly, or daily planning cycles, and a proven platform for Vendor Managed Inventory. Demand Solutions helps manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors exchange information for inventory, proactively manage demand rather than operate in reactive mode, and increase profitability. Demand Solutions Forecast Management provides a powerful yet easy to use demand planning solution that fits virtually any industry and deploys quickly. The system offers significant flexibility and allows the user to select the forecasting formula which best addresses each item’s demand pattern to predict an accurate forecast of future demand. Demand Solutions Requirements Planning incorporates collaborative planning capabilities to streamline supply activities from the production line through delivery. With instant analysis of the projected demand for unlimited items against current inventory, Demand Solutions Requirements Planning recommends the ideal inventory level for each ship-to location, providing valuable visibility up and down the supply chain. Demand Solutions Collaborate offers a certified CPFR compliant collaborative planning solution that streamlines communications between a company and its customers and suppliers. This solution minimizes the barriers to entry for smaller trading partners, who need only a Web browser, and extends the value available through the entire Demand Solutions product line. Collaboration results in greater demand visibility and closer synchronization of production and inventory investments. Demand Solutions Sales & Operations Planning automates and continually analyzes the annual business planning process. There are two annual business plans available for each of the sections of data (bookings, sales, production, inventory, backlog and shipments): the Annual Plan and the Flexible Plan. Demand Solutions Feedback is a collaborative tool for real-time input to forecasts based on the activity of salespeople in the field. Combined with the sales force’s knowledge of changing tastes and demands, the “best-fit” projection generates an adjusted forecast for managers to approve or modify. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Demand Solutions Rough Cut dramatically increases the accuracy of available-to-promise (ATP) ratios and can reduce the cost of manual processes and calculations. It provides visibility of resource utilization and allows users to level the plan instantly. Demand Solutions Rough Cut’s powerful “what if” scenarios help ensure that businesses can meet demand as promised. Electronic Demand Solutions Interface helps customers more effectively establish collaborative relationships with critical trading partners by applying the power of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) to the supply chain. This flexible interface eliminates the confusion that often marks EDI transactions by intelligently translating raw data for instant use by Demand Solutions. Demand Solutions View significantly extends the value of Demand Solutions, empowering users to aggregate, rotate, filter, sort and otherwise manipulate large volumes of data into meaningful information. Demand Solutions View can gather data from any field within Demand Solutions, as well as external sources. Enterprises also can share output with colleagues, customers and vendors over networks, captive and secure intranets and the Internet. Demand Solutions Stores enables manufacturers, distributors and retailers to collaboratively produce, ship and replenish product based on point-of-sale data. Highly accurate and easy to use, Demand Solutions Stores can track thousands of SKUs in more than a hundred locations, resulting in optimized store-level replenishment, reduced out-of-stocks, greater inventory turns, elevated customer service levels and increased profits. Demand Solutions Stores is designed around the philosophy of continuous replenishment, enabling actual demand to be consolidated from each point-of-sale (POS) location and routed to suppliers. Demand Solutions Stores leverages detailed analysis and strategic assortment planning for a store or group of stores. The result is a collaborative, highly responsive value chain from manufacturer or distributor to retail. Segment 2—Enterprise Resource Planning American Software ERP Our enterprise solutions are comprehensive global solutions that link critical functions throughout an enterprise. All of our enterprise solutions support e-business functions. The e-Intelliprise solution is a web-based ERP system that a customer can run over the Internet, intranet or extranet utilizing the IBM iSeries servers. This allows functions within the ERP system to be easily deployed over the Internet using a dynamic role-based web page capability. Users no longer require separate implementations to achieve differing e-business views over the Internet. This solution supports e-businesses and traditional businesses with full front-to-back office integration, which is critical to successful fulfillment and seamless processing and reporting throughout the enterprise. The e-intelliprise solution is a global system, capable of operating in multiple languages and logistical organizations. We build this system around a flexible enterprise architecture that enables centralized management of enterprise wide processes while allowing delegation of other business process decisions to other levels of the organization. Flow Manufacturing is a software solution that supports pull-based manufacturing. We believe that Flow Manufacturing, also referred to as Lean or Agile Manufacturing, will become a key competitive advantage to companies as e-Business increases consumer expectations for faster deliveries, reduced pricing and more highly customized products. Our e-applications are e-business solutions that can web-enable specific business functions through integration with existing ERP or legacy systems. Currently, e-applications are available for the following applications: e-procurement, e-store, e-expenses, e-forms, e-payables, e-receivables, Purchase Order Tracking and Vendor Collaboration, e-process management and e-connect, a seamless, XML-enabled data exchange. We believe that these products represent a cost-effective solution for customers with an e-business requirement. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We also market a tool to enable our customers to enter inventory and production transactions using bar code data collection devices. This product is known as RF Direct Connect, and ensures accurate entry of such information as shipping, transfer, inventory movement, receiving, and production data. We have web-enabled our legacy S/390 and iSeries applications using Host Access Transformation Server (an IBM WebSphere application). This product enables our existing S/390 and iSeries customers to access their back office systems from any Windows-based computer with Internet access using only a web browser. The graphical user interface reduces the learning curve for new users and rejuvenates the look and feel of the systems. We market this product under the name Host Access. Our product line consists of software and services that operate on three strategic computer platforms: (1) IBM System/390 Mainframe or compatible, (2) IBM iSeries (AS/400), and (3) Intel-based servers and clients that operate, Windows 98, NT, 2000, and Windows XP. We have written our products in various standard programming languages used for business application software, including ANSI COBOL, Micro Focus COBOL, C, C++, Visual Basic, JAVA, JAVA2 and other programming languages. Many have both on-line and batch capabilities. The following is a summary of our main ERP software solutions outside of our New Generation Computing, Inc. subsidiary: Manufacturing Modules Companies may use e-intelliprise with Traditional MRP II Manufacturing and/or Flow Manufacturing modules. The modules listed below are the solution components within Traditional Manufacturing: • Master Scheduling • Material Requirements Planning • Bill of Materials • Capacity Planning • Production Order Status • Route and Work Center Maintenance • Shop Floor Control Logistics Modules Our logistics solution consists of an integrated system of modules that provide information about the status of purchasing activities, customer orders, inventory position and internal inventory requisition requirements. These modules perform primarily the following functions: Inventory Asset Management • Inventory Asset Control • Lot Control • Receipt and Shipment Management • Serialized Inventory Processing • Replenishment Processing • Requisition Management • Inspection 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Procurement • e-Procurement • Traditional Purchasing • Requisition Processing • Blanket Purchasing • Purchase Order and Purchase Requisition Approval Routing Customer Order Management • e-Store • Order Management • Pricing and Promotions Management • Shipping Management • Billing Management • Credit Control Processing • Customer Management Financial Modules Our comprehensive financial solutions provide functions such as financial reporting, budgeting, asset management, cash management, credit management and receivables management. These systems assist in resolving customers’ specific financial control issues faster and more effectively. We designed the e-intelliprise financial module for global companies and in order to allow the use and reporting of multiple currencies, including the European Monetary Unit (EMU). The specific applications available are: General Ledger • Chart of Accounts Processing • Budgeting • Journal Entry Processing Accounts Payable • e-Payables • Voucher Entry Processing • Payment Processing Treasury • Bank Reconciliation • Cash Management • Netting and Write-Offs 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Accounts Receivable • e-Receivables • Collections Management • Credit Management • Cash Receipts Management • Financial Notices and Dunning Management • Activity Manager Key benefits of Enterprise Solutions include the following: American Software is a single-source solution provider for the Internet age. Our comprehensive e-business solution suite supports the e-business requirements of most enterprises throughout their adoption of Internet technology. e-intelliprise is a comprehensive solution to support the operations of enterprises and provide advanced decision support tools. Front-to-Back Office Integration is critical to the success of an enterprise. e-intelliprise provides complete integration of e-business transactions to the entire ERP system. This supports comprehensive and consistent flow of information throughout the enterprise and supply chain. Fulfillment issues that have been experienced by some e-tailers can be resolved through front-to-back office integration. e-intelliprise is a single solution for support of traditional and e-business activities. Rules-based architecture allows different views based upon user role. e-intelliprise is very flexible due to its rules-based architecture. This allows the ERP data to be presented based upon the profile of the user. Deployable over the Internet, Intranet and, Extranet. Companies can deploy e-intelliprise over multiple channels without a separate implementation. e-intelliprise allows users to create multiple secure role-based views of the system. We believe this system flexibility provides greater business value by extending the information within the ERP securely across to employees, customers and trading partners, as needed. Full Global Capabilities. e-intelliprise provides full global support of the entire enterprise with multiple languages, currencies and books. This allows users to view information in their native language and currency. Modular Solution. Companies may purchase one or more modules, which they can integrate with other enterprise software. They may also purchase an integrated product suite to handle increased requirements for enterprise management, processing and transaction volume. Extensive Functionality. Our enterprise solutions combine traditional and e-business functionality into a comprehensive yet flexible system. e-intelliprise offers full operational and decision support functionality for global enterprises. Rapid Deployment. Our products utilize a modular design and a flexible rules-based architecture, thereby streamlining implementation and reducing project time and expenses. We have announced a 120-day implementation program that is appropriate for many customers. Flow Manufacturing Modules American Software’s Flow Manufacturing solution is designed to operate on a stand-alone basis, or with the e-intelliprise ERP suite or with an ERP suite provided by another vendor. Customers can use Flow Manufacturing in conjunction with traditional manufacturing or they can use it as the sole manufacturing solution 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements throughout an enterprise. Flow Manufacturing represents the industry’s most comprehensive solution designed expressly for companies considering the adoption of this approach to manufacturing. The solution is comprised of the following modules: • Line Design • Kanban Management • Demand Smoothing • Product Costing • Engineering Change Control • Method Sheet Management (Work Instructions) Flow Manufacturing Benefits: e-business support. To meet e-business demands, we anticipate that many manufacturers will replace traditional mass production methods with Flow Manufacturing techniques. The benefits of Flow Manufacturing, such as reduced cost and reduced lead-time, offer a more appropriate structure for responding to e-business demands. With Flow Manufacturing, manufacturers build the product in response to customer demand. Scaleable Implementation. We can scale Flow Manufacturing to handle a single production line up to the requirements of a complex multi-plant, multi-source manufacturing environment. The solution can also co-exist with traditional manufacturing so that manufacturers can use Flow Manufacturing for some portions of production and assembly while maintaining traditional manufacturing for others. Integration. We can license Flow Manufacturing in conjunction with our e-intelliprise ERP suite, or we can license it to companies that are using the enterprise solutions of other vendors. Industry-standard data formats, interfaces and protocols facilitate this integration. Rapid Deployment. Flow Manufacturing has a modular design, which we believe streamlines implementation and allows deployment in a relatively short time frame. The comprehensive functionality of each module generally permits customers to implement the solutions with nominal modifications. In addition, Flow Manufacturing’s Windows-based interface and other tools and techniques reduces training requirements and implementation tasks. e-APPLICATIONS e-applications streamline business processes and create competitive advantage that helps businesses leverage the full value of their existing ERP and legacy systems. Our e-applications provide added value by extending the reach of the ERP to trading partners, establishing the groundwork for collaborative trading. e-Procurement. This self-service online procurement solution reduces the time, cost and effort associated with “buy side” activities. This e-application can also help an enterprise become more efficient and productive by streamlining the procurement process and eliminating purchasing bottlenecks. This solution not only eliminates purchasing delays but it positions enterprises to respond faster to change and to capitalize on e-business opportunities. e-Store. This e-business storefront solution offers a cost-effective way to expand an enterprise’s market by providing around-the-clock access to web-based ordering. e-Store acquires and retains customers’, employees’ and distributors’ access to catalog information, pricing, product availability and order status. The solution can give users authority to create or change customer orders, or may be restricted to inquiries. e-Expenses. This paperless workflow solution enables employees to submit expense reports via the Internet, document receipts via fax and merge receipts and electronic documents. By giving employees access 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements into expense status at all stages of the processing cycle (routing, approval and payment) and by supplying company management with a systemwide look into expense behavior, the e-Expenses solution offers a new level of control over and accountability for the cost of the function. e-Forms. E-Forms provides the ability to route specific forms, such as purchase requisitions, purchase orders, invoices, and acknowledgments via e-mail or fax. We believe that e-forms offers an effective, easy-to-use communication channel to external trading partners. e-Forms provides a secure, self-service link between non-host users and purchasing, requisitioning, accounts payable, accounts receivable, customer order processing and manufacturing systems. Using e-mail, fax and XML/FTP gateways, this solution’s workflow engine routes documents from host applications. The review, approval and update loop uses HTML formatting and receives instructions interactively. e-Payables. This module streamlines administrative processes regarding purchases online not using purchase orders, enabling users to cost-effectively transact business from any location at any time. Using the Internet or internal intranets, e-Payables provides a secure interface into an accounts payable system. e-Receivables. This solution is designed to supply account information online to an enterprise’s customers. e-Receivables can help improve cash flow, reduce the cost of financing sales and, by automating routine tasks such as customer queries, enable strategic focus on profit creation and reduce time demands on customer service representatives. Purchase Order Tracking and Vendor Collaboration. Companies that source globally may experience problems communicating with distant suppliers. This module combines some of the features of e-Procurement and e-Forms with the ability to negotiate delivery schedules. The system allows buyers to electronically send purchase orders to suppliers, receive acknowledgments into a secure web site, then communicate and negotiate delivery schedules via a secure web site. It uses E-mail alerts extensively to notify buyers and suppliers of changes to requirements and schedules. e-Connect. We designed this solution to enable the exchange of XML-enabled data. e-Connect provides the link to extend the ERP back-office software to the Web and to enable users to interact with the ERP software via the web. e-Connect also enables the interactive communication between Web applications, marketplaces, trading exchanges, suppliers, B2B transactions and the back office ERP systems. e-Process Management. This solution is designed as a web-based event-driven system that facilitates the sharing of information and the management of business processes across internal departments and among business partners. It automates business procedures (work flows) during which documents, information and tasks are passed from one participant to another in a way that is governed by rules or procedures. RF Direct Connect. American Software’s RF Direct Connect solution offers an automated data collection system integrating hand-held data collection devices and printing devices (RF terminals, scanners, bar-code readers and printers) with the host ERP system’s Inventory, Customer Order Processing, and Production Control systems. Users can perform a number of inventory and production reporting transactions using data collection devices including: • Purchase Order Receiving • Transfer Order Receiving/Shipping • Production Order Receiving/Receipt Reversal • Customer Order pick verification/reversal • Customer Order Shipment verification/reversal 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements New Generation Computing, Inc. New Generation Computing (NGC) is our wholly-owned subsidiary that provides product solutions for both retailers and manufacturers in the Apparel, Sewn Products and Furniture industries by providing functionality that allows customers to improve efficiencies, lower operating costs, reduce supply chain time, meet complex customer requirements, improve supply chain visibility, improve inventory management, and reduce production costs. NGC’s solutions include an Internet Sourcing and Supply Chain Visibility system (e-SPS), a comprehensive Enterprise Resource Planning system (RedHorseTM), a Product Lifecycle Management system (e-PDM), an Apparel Specific Enterprise Resource Planning System (AMAS), a Shop Floor Control and Incentive Payroll System (TPM), an Import Management System (IMS), an Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), a Full Package Management System (FMS), and an EZ-Ship Packing and Shipping System for Remote Factories (EZ-Ship). All products are completely integrated or we can implement them individually. e-SPS—NGC has designed e-SPS to provide a wide range of supply chain management solutions over the Internet. e-SPS is a powerful software application for companies producing and sourcing products around the world. Users include retailers, apparel manufacturers, brand managers, contractors, agents, brokers, and logistics providers. e-SPS users around the world only need a web browser to use and update the system. e-SPS employs secure hierarchical views to select data that is appropriate for each user. It creates Triggers and Alerts automatically based on events defined in the Time and Action calendars, Business Processes and other specific collaboration issues. Barcode labels and ASN’s facilitate distribution channel receipts. e-SPS provides end-to-end visibility into the Supply Chain from product inception to distribution channel reception, all in real time. Several industry leading companies have successfully implemented this product, including Kellwood Corporation, Wilson’s Leather, Ralph Lauren Childrenswear, William Carter Company, VF Corporation and Russell Corporation. e-SPS features include: • Specification Creation and Delivery • Product Development Tracking • Request For Quotation and Bid Exchange • Pre-Production Calendaring • Create POs and/or interface to ERP Systems • Supplier/Factory order acknowledgements/confirmations • Tracks the progress of orders (Routes, Stages, and Milestones) • Supplier/Factory Scorecards based on performance standards • Capture quality data and facilitate the early detection of quality problems • Scan, pack, barcode, and ship the product with ASNs • Track the logistics of the shipments • Identify and collaboratively resolve issues • Analyze, evaluate and monitor efficiencies, on-time deliveries, and quality • Exceptional Reporting and Executive Information System • No software is needed at the remote site, only an internet browser RedHorse—RedHorse is a comprehensive Enterprise Resource Planning system designed specifically for the sewn products industry. It consists of 12 optional modules; Customer Order Processing, EDI Information System, Invoicing & Accounts Receivable, Finished Goods Inventory Control, Purchasing and Receiving, Components Inventory, Accounts Payable, General Ledger, Import Management, Remote Plant Management, Production Planning and Screen Printing & Embroidery. RedHorse features include: • Scalable MS SQL Database • Customer Order Processing 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Production Control • Import Management • Royalty Management • Bar Coded Piece Goods Control • Blanks Inventory • EDI Management • Financial Accounting • Remote Inventory Management • Outbound Scan/Pack/ASN • Flexible Reporting • Client server for remote access • Object oriented development • Information Portal for Internet access e-PDM—e-PDM is a Product Lifecycle Management system that increases speed to market and facilitates collaborative global communication. e-PDM enables companies to organize and share common business processes and product information with design, product development, planning, engineering, manufacturing and sourcing suppliers around the world. e-PDM helps sewn-products companies with the following functions: • Enhance creativity and collaboration on new ideas • Efficiently define concepts and costs, determine viability • Develop and deliver new products to market faster • Manage frequent changes across global supply chain • Track & manage critical timelines and supplier relationships AMAS—NGC designed this integrated, high performance software package specifically for companies producing sewn products (apparel, handbags, shoes, hats, bedspreads, accessories, and other sewn products). Whether companies make to order, produce in advance, import finished goods or a combination of the three, AMAS provides a high performance, cost-effective solution. AMAS is a comprehensive management system that includes sales, distribution, finance, production planning, administration, accounting, EDI and much more, such as: • Powerful order entry and allocation • Invoicing and accounts receivable, including factoring • Finished goods inventory with comprehensive Cut and Sold analysis • Fabric and trims inventory (includes optional roll and dye lot control) • Numerous sales analysis profiles • Powerful and Flexible Bill of Materials • Material requirements planning, including time-phased analysis • Purchasing and Receiving control system • Accounts Payable, with check reconciliation • General Ledger, including up to 20 companies with consolidation • Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) • 807/9802 Remote Plant Tracking and Control System 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Import Management System with Letters of Credit and Landed Costing • Production Planning including plant level capacity planning options • Available on a wide range of personal computers and high performance networks • Available on DOS, Novell, Windows95, and Windows NT TPM is a shop floor control software system, designed for any business that is producing sewn products. Bar-coded coupons permit rapid entry of daily production and payroll data. After scanning the coupons into TPM, TPM generates reports and inquiries to track employee performance, calculate payroll for incentive and non-incentive employees, display the status of work-in-process (WIP) and assist with plant loading. Other methods of data collection are available, including modular monitoring and real time WIP data collection, bar-coded coupons and bundle/container control. Other features of TPM include: • Supports modular, progressive bundling, piece rate, salary, and hybrid pay methods • Unlimited user-defined Off-Standard paycodes and methodologies • Extensive WIP and Operator Analysis, including Skills Inventories • Training curves and jump base tables for flexible pay plans • Bi-lingual English and Spanish system • Lot Tracking System • Computerized Time Clock Interface • Hand Held Data Collection Interface • Interface to GSD Labor Costing • Plant Loading • Real Time Systems • Available on Personal Computers • Available on DOS, Novell, Windows 95, and Windows NT IMS—The Import Management System controls factory orders from the issue of purchase orders, through Letter of Credit requests, issues, tracking and release. Additionally, the system tracks factory orders and shipments to the distribution center while recording estimated and actual costs for each factory order. We designed the Import Management System for any business engaged in the importing of finished products and businesses using letters of credit. Other features of IMS include: • Tracks import factory orders • Tracks and manages letters of credit • Tracks factory shipments • Records import costing EDI—EDI Orders and Invoices interfaces to NGC’s Customer Order Processing Module and Invoicing and Accounts Receivable Modules. This software product accepts electronic customer orders and updates them automatically into the NGC Customer Order Processing Module. The EDI customer order data is translated under program control into the NGC database to create customer orders. It provides a comprehensive audit/validation process to check EDI order information prior to posting into the Customer Order file. EDI Orders and Invoices are a key ingredient of an overall quick response strategy. Significant savings are possible by eliminating manual data entry and printed invoices, which require time and postage to deliver. These EDI facilities can provide a rapid return on investment through improved customer service and internal efficiency gains. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements FMS—Full Package production has become an important part of the overall sourcing strategy for many apparel manufacturers. A Full Package environment includes many business activities beyond the sewing process. FMS has been created to address these multiple and complex business processes. Some of the Business Processes encompassed in the bilingual (Spanish and English) FMS system are: • Purchasing and receiving • Fabric inventory • Trim inventory • Bills of material • Requirements planning • Accounts payable • Order processing • Cut processing • Finished goods inventory • Invoicing • Accounts receivable • Quality control • Electronic data interchange (EDI) • Bar-coded carton labels and electronic Advance Ship Notices (ASN’s) • Production Planning • Factory tracking for control of local and remote production facilities • Import utility for cut/order data from manufacturer’s ERP system • Production control and bar-coded payroll system • Interface to Web-based e-SPS EZ-Ship facilitates a global sourcing strategy for companies producing sewn products around the world. This multi-lingual system allows for shipping to multiple distribution centers or customers from factories, contractors and suppliers. EZ-Ship supports unlimited ASN and label formats, thereby giving remote shipping sites greater flexibility. EZ-Ship uses a standard import/export data set to easily integrate with most ERP or Distribution Center system. EZ-Ship also integrates with NGC’s Shop Floor Control System (TPM) and NGC’s Internet Sourcing and Production System (e-SPS). EZ-Ship utilizes a web-enabled FTP data exchange utility to easily facilitate data transfer between host and remote systems. Other features of EZ-Ship include: • Scans UPC labels • Creates/scans UCC-128 labels • Advanced ship notices (ASNs) • Manifests • Commercial invoices • Bills of lading • Validates carton and shipment accuracy • Carton-level quality 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Segment 3—IT Consulting The Proven Method, Inc. The Proven Method, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, is a technology services firm that specializes in assisting a diverse customer base to solve business issues with custom-developed technology solutions. The Proven Method maintains a full-time staff of over 120 technical specialists and business management consultants with a wide range of technical skills, business applications, and industry experience. We believe that a key differentiator of The Proven Method is its ability to offer flexibility among potential solutions that are determined by the individual needs of each customer. The solutions it provides can include custom development, implementation of third party packages, and the temporary use of our project managers and highly skilled technical resources to augment a customer’s in-house development team. The cross industry and cross platform experience that The Proven Method has acquired over the past 10 years enables us to provide services to virtually any type or size company. The Proven Method’s customers typically benefit from our services in one of three ways: 1. Smaller and emerging firms rely on The Proven Method to serve in lieu of an in-house application development group. We provide these firms with the management and technical resources necessary to deliver custom-developed solutions. 2. Midsize companies will typically outsource complete application development projects to The Proven Method, particularly when their internal technical personnel face a combination of critical timing and heavy backlog. 3. Any size company can rely on The Proven Method to provide supplemental technical resources when the need arises for a skill or technical discipline that it may not currently possess or if it simply needs more of a particular set of skills required to complete large development projects. The Proven Method has worked with customers such as IBM, Georgia Tech Research Institute, Kubota Manufacturing of North America, The Home Depot, BellSouth, The State of Georgia, Xerox, Global Payments, and numerous small to midsize companies. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Customers We primarily target businesses in the retail, apparel, consumer-packaged goods, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, industrial products and other manufacturing industries. During fiscal 2005, two customers accounted for 11% and 14% of our total revenues. A sample of companies that have purchased one or more of our products or services is as follows: Consumer Packaged Goods Chemicals, Oil & Gas, Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and Others Avery Dennison Corporation Afrox Avondale Mills Ashley Furniture BP Lubricants Cintas Alberto-Culver Company Caremark Corning Cable Systems Bell Sports Cambrex Karlskoga AB Crown Crafts, Inc. Canandaigua Wine Company Chamberlin-Edmonds Dal-Tile Corporation Carriage House Companies Dow Chemical Company DaimlerChrysler Buses Farley’s & Sathers Candy Facet Technologies Dassault Falcon Jet Company Fisher Scientific International Draka Elevator Products Haverty Furniture Company Genencor International IBM/Synertech Hooker Furniture Kaiser Foundation Intertape Polymer Group Huhtamaki UK Norpro St. Gobain Koch Industries Leviton Manufacturing Company PDVSA Mercury Marine L’Oreal USA Pfizer, Inc. Newell Rubbermaid Malt-O-Meal Company Sigma-Aldrich Corporation Robert Horne Paper Company Maybelline Inc. Stepan Company Russell Corporation McCain Foods West Pharmaceutical Snap On, Incorporated Mills Pride WM Barr & Company Tyco Plastics and Adhesives Nestle Purina Petcare Union Camp O’Sullivan Furniture Retail & Apparel Weyerhauser Parmalat Boots The Chemists US Can Pernod-Ricard Brown Shoe Company xpedx Reckitt Benckisen Columbia Sportswear Company Republic Beverage Company Dick’s Sporting Goods After Market Distribution Rich Seapak Corporation Home Depot Donaldson Company Rockline Industries Hugo Boss Epson America, Inc. S.C. Johnson & Sons, Inc. Jockey International Farnell InOne The Coleman Company Polo Ralph Lauren Holley Carburetors Xerox Global Solutions Ralph Lauren Childrenswear Hyundai Motor America Wrigley Company Rocky Shoes & Boots Ingersoll-Rand Savane Komatsu America International Telecommunications & Utilities Tiffany & Co. Komatsu Europe International Britsh Telecom Under Armour Performance Apparel NACCO Materials Handling Group Florida Power & Light Warnaco Peugeot International Huntsville Utilities Williamson-Dickie Manufacturing Remy International Piedmont Natural Gas VF Corporation Rheem Manufacturing Saudi Consolidated Electric Saab Aircraft Sprint Standard Motor Products Texas Utilities Verizon We typically experience a slight degree of seasonality reflected in a slowing of services revenues during the annual winter holiday season, which occurs in the third quarter of our fiscal year. We account for our backlog in deferred revenues (refer to note 1(c) in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are not reliant on government customers. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Integrated System Design While customers can use our software applications individually, we have designed them to be combined as integrated systems to meet unique customer requirements. The user may select virtually any combination of modules to form an integrated solution for a particular business problem. The license for such a solution could range from one single module to a multi-module, multiple-user solution incorporating the full range of our products. Customers frequently require services beyond those provided by our standard support/maintenance agreement. To meet those customers’ needs, we established a separate professional services division that provides specialized business and software implementation consulting, custom programming, on-site installation, system-to-system interfacing and extensive training. We provide these services, frequently referred to as “systems integration services,” for an additional fee normally under a separate contract, based upon time and materials utilized. Sales and Marketing We market our products through direct and indirect sales channels. We conduct our principal sales and marketing activities from corporate headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and have sales and/or support offices in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, and Pittsburgh. We manage sales channels outside of North America from our international offices in the United Kingdom and Spain. Logility has a number of marketing alliances, including those with IBM and SSA Global Technologies (“SSA”). Generally, these marketing alliance agreements provide the vendors with non-exclusive rights to market our products and access to our marketing materials and product training. Some highlights of these agreements are as follows: • IBM—we entered into an agreement with IBM on March 17, 2000 pursuant to which we modified our Supply Chain products, with IBM’s technical and financial assistance, to operate with IBM’s eServer iSeries (AS/400) platform. Also, we agreed to market and support the IBM-compatible supply chain products that resulted from our efforts. IBM may also market our supply chain products and refer potential customers to Logility. • SSA Global Technologies—On November 17, 2001, we granted SSA a worldwide, non-exclusive license to name, package, market, distribute and supply the Logility Voyager Solutions suite as “BPCS (Business Planning and Control Software) Collaborative Commerce powered by Logility.” In exchange, SSA agreed to use all reasonable efforts to promote and sell the software. This agreement had an original expiration date of April 30, 2004, but is automatically extended for additional one year periods, unless either party terminates the agreement by giving 90 days written notice. In addition to these marketing alliances, we have developed a network of international agents who assist in selling our products outside the United States. We intend to utilize these and future relationships with software and service organizations to enhance our sales and marketing position. These independent distributors and resellers, located in Canada, South America, Europe and the Asia/Pacific region, distribute our product lines in foreign countries. These vendors typically sell their own consulting and systems integration services in conjunction with licensing our products. With the acquisition of Demand Management, Logility gained access to a global distribution channel consisting of 23 organizations with sales, implementation and support resources serving customers in 68 countries. We support our sales activities by conducting a variety of marketing programs including public relations, direct marketing, advertising, trade shows, product seminars, industry speakers, user group conferences and ongoing customer communication and industry analysts programs. We also participate in industry conferences such as those organized by the American Production and Inventory Control Specialists (APICS) and the Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals (CSMCP), formerly called the Council of Logistics Management (CLM). 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Licenses Like many business application software firms, software revenue consists principally of fees generated from licensing our software products. In consideration of the payment of license fees, we typically grant nonexclusive, nontransferable, perpetual licenses, which are primarily business unit, user-specific and geographically restricted. Our standard license agreement contains provisions designed to prevent disclosure and unauthorized use of our software. In these agreements we warrant that our products will function in accordance with the specifications set forth in our product documentation. The prices for our products are typically functions of the number of modules licensed and the number of servers, users and sites for which the solution is designed and deployed. Customer Service and Support We provide the following services and support to our customers: Implementation Support: We offer our customers a professional and proven implementation program that facilitates rapid implementation of our software products. Our consultants help customers define the nature of their project, and subsequently proceed through the implementation process. We provide training for all users and managers involved. We first establish measurable financial and logistical performance indicators, and then evaluate them for conformance during and after implementation. Additional services beyond implementation can include post-implementation reviews and benchmarks to further enhance the benefits to customers. Implementation: General Training Services. We offer our customers post-delivery professional services consisting primarily of implementation and training services, for which we typically charge on a daily basis. Customers that purchase implementation services receive assistance in integrating our solution with existing software applications and databases. Implementation of our products typically requires three to nine months, depending on factors such as the complexity of a customer’s existing systems, the number of modules purchased, and the number of end users. Product Maintenance and Updates: Support Services. We provide our customers with ongoing product support services. Typically, we enter into support or maintenance contracts with customers for an initial one to three year term, billed annually in advance, at the time of the product license with renewal for additional periods thereafter. Under these contracts, we provide telephone consulting, product updates and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services. We provide ongoing support and maintenance services on a seven-day-a-week, 24-hours-a-day basis through telephone, electronic mail and web-based support, using a call logging and tracking system for quality assurance. Research and Development Our future success depends in part upon our ability to continue to enhance existing products, respond to changing customer requirements, develop and introduce new or enhanced products, and keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. We focus our development efforts on several areas, including, but not limited to, enhancing operability of our products across distributed and changing heterogeneous hardware platforms, operating systems and relational databases, and adding functionality to existing products. These development efforts will continue to focus on deploying applications within a multi-tiered ERP and supply chain environment, including the Internet. Logility’s current release of Logility Voyager Solutions is version 7.0. This version uses an Internet-based architecture for maximum scalability and messaging functionality that supports the increasingly distributed nature of supply chain planning, global sourcing, supply chain execution and collaborative commerce. Logility Voyager Solutions interface with software of leading ERP vendors such as SAP, Oracle, PeopleSoft/JD Edwards, and SSA Global Technologies. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The current release of Demand Solution One is version 9.1 and the current release of Demand Solutions Stores is version 4.1. These products are designed to work with a wide variety of MRP, ERP and legacy enterprise applications. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to continue to enhance existing products, respond to changing customer requirements, develop and introduce new or enhanced products, and keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. We focus our development efforts on several areas, including, but not limited to, enhancing operability of our products across distributed and changing heterogeneous hardware platforms, operating systems and relational databases, and adding functionality to existing products. These development efforts will continue to focus on deploying applications within a multi-tiered supply chain environment, including the Internet. Our client/server and Internet-based solutions, which utilize the latest technologies, will be important for our long-term growth. As of April 30, 2005, we employed 89 persons in product research, development and enhancement activities. Competition Our competitors are diverse and offer a variety of solutions directed at various aspects of the supply chain, as well as the enterprise application market as a whole. Our existing competitors include: • large enterprise resource planning (ERP) application software vendors such as SAP and Oracle, which recently acquired PeopleSoft/JD Edwards and Retek, each of which offers sophisticated ERP solutions that currently, or may in the future, incorporate supply chain management modules, advanced planning and scheduling, warehouse management, transportation or collaboration software; • vendors focusing on the supply chain application software market, including but not limited to, vendors such as i2 Technologies, JDA Software, and Manugistics; • other business application software vendors that may broaden their product offerings by internally developing, or by acquiring or partnering with independent developers of supply chain management software; and • internal development efforts by corporate information technology departments. In addition, our Logility subsidiary may face competition from other application software vendors, including ERP vendors that from time to time jointly market Logility’s products as a complement to their own systems. To the extent such vendors develop or acquire systems with functionality comparable to Logility’s products, their significant installed customer base, long-standing customer relationships and ability to offer a broad solution could provide a competitive advantage over Logility’s products. We also expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the market for collaborative commerce and supply chain management software and new products and technologies are introduced. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. The principal competitive factors in the target markets in which we compete include product functionality and quality, domain expertise, integration technologies, product suite integration, breadth of products and related services such as customer support, training and implementation services. Other factors important to customers and prospects include: • customer service and satisfaction; • ability to provide relevant customer references; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • compliance with industry-specific requirements and standards; • flexibility to adapt to changing business requirements; • ability to generate business benefits; • rapid payback and measurable return on investment; • vendor financial stability and company as well as product reputation; and • initial license price, cost to implement and long term total cost of ownership. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have a broader worldwide presence, longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, greater name recognition, and a larger installed base of customers than we have. Some competitors have become more aggressive with their prices, payment terms and issuance of contractual implementation terms or guarantees. In order to be successful in the future, we must continue to develop innovative software solutions and respond promptly and effectively to technological change and competitors’ innovations. We may also have to lower prices or offer other favorable terms. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. We believe that our principal competitive advantages are our comprehensive, integrated solutions, our list of referenceable customers, the ability of our solutions to generate business benefits for our customers, our substantial investment in product development, our deep domain expertise, the ease of use of our software products, our customer support and implementation services, our ability to deploy quickly, and our ability to deliver rapid return on investment for our customers. Proprietary Rights and Licenses Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part upon our proprietary technology. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, which may afford only limited protection. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Although we rely on the limited protection afforded by such confidential and contractual procedures and intellectual property laws, we also believe that factors such as the knowledge, ability, and experience of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, reliable maintenance and timeliness and quality of support services are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We presently have no patents or patent applications pending. The source code for our proprietary software is protected as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. Generally copyrights on our products expire 95 years after the year of first publication of each product. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and customers, and control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. In addition, we have registered certain trademarks and have registration applications pending for other trademarks. We provide our software products to customers under non-exclusive license agreements. As is customary in the software industry, in order to protect our intellectual property rights, we do not sell or transfer title to our products to our customers. Although the license agreements place restrictions on the customer’s use of our products, unauthorized use of our products nevertheless may occur. Despite measures we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to reverse engineer or copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In the future, we may increasingly be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Although we are not aware that any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any such claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, can be time consuming and expensive to defend, prosecute or resolve. Moreover, an adverse outcome in litigation or similar adversarial proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require the expenditure of significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, require a substantial amount of attention from management, require disputed rights to be licensed from others, require us to enter into royalty arrangements or require us to cease the marketing or use of certain products, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent that we desire or are required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that any such licenses will be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have relicensed, and expect in the future to relicense, certain software from third parties for use in connection with our products. There can be no assurance that these third-party software vendors will not change their product offerings or that these software licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The termination of any such licenses or product offerings, or the failure of the third-party licensors to adequately maintain or update their products, could result in delays in our ability to ship certain of our products while we seek to implement technology offered by alternative sources. Any required replacement licenses could prove costly. Further, any such delay, if it becomes extended, could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Company Strategy The objective of American Software is to become a leading provider of enterprise-wide ERP and collaborative supply chain solutions to enable small, medium, large and Fortune 1000 companies to optimize their operations associated with the planning, sourcing, manufacture, storage, and distribution of products. Our strategy includes the following key elements: Leverage and Expand Installed Base of Customers. We currently target businesses in the consumer goods, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, apparel and sewn products, and oil and gas industries. We intend to continue to leverage our installed base of more than 1,450 customers to introduce additional functionality, product upgrades, and complementary modules. In addition, we intend to expand sales to new customers in our existing vertical markets and to target additional vertical markets over time. Continue to Expand Sales and Marketing. We intend to continue to pursue an increased share of the market for ERP and supply chain management software solutions by expanding our sales and marketing activities. We believe our competitive advantage includes providing a rapid implementation, easy-to-maintain configuration, and quick time-to-benefit across the full spectrum of customer operations. Logility intends to continue building a direct sales force that is focused on selected vertical markets, such as consumer goods, retail and manufacturing supply chains, and New Generation Computing intends to continue to focus on the Apparel, Sewn Goods, and Furniture industries, adding sales and marketing resources when appropriate. Expand Indirect Channels to Increase Market Penetration. We believe that key relationships with value added resellers will increase sales and expand market penetration of our products and services. For example, Logility has established a relationship with SSA Global Technologies to market, sell, implement and support components of the Logility Voyager Solutions suite such as the BPCS (Business Planning and Control Software) Collaborative Commerce Suite powered by Logility. The acquisition of Demand Management added 9 domestic and 14 international value-added resellers (VARs) to Logility’s indirect channel in fiscal 2005. This experienced 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements global distribution network significantly expands Logility’s reach and provides sales, implementation and support resources serving customers in 70 countries. Maintain Technology Leadership. Logility believes that it is a technology leader in the field of collaborative supply chain optimization solutions and intends to continue to provide innovative, advanced solutions and services to this market. Logility believes that it was one of the earliest providers of supply chain management software solutions on a client-server platform and on Windows, and the first to introduce a collaborative supply chain planning solution that operates over the Internet. Logility intends to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. Invest Aggressively to Build Market Share. We intend to continue to invest to expand our sales force, research and development efforts, and consulting infrastructure, balanced with our goal of increasing profitability. We believe these investments are necessary to increase our market share and to capitalize on the growth opportunities in the market. Acquire or Invest in Complementary Businesses, Products and Technologies. We believe that select acquisitions or investments may provide opportunities to broaden our product offering to provide more advanced solutions for our target markets. We will evaluate acquisitions or investments that will provide us with complementary products and technologies, expand our geographic presence and distribution channels, penetrate additional vertical markets with challenges and requirements similar to those we currently meet, and further solidify our leadership position within the supply chain management market. Focus on Integrated Collaborative Planning and Supply Chain Execution Solution. Logility believes it is one of the few providers of truly integrated supply chain management software solutions addressing demand and supply planning as well as transportation and warehousing logistics requirements. Logility Voyager Solutions provide a comprehensive suite for supply chain planning, warehouse and transportation management with collaboration at its core, streamlining business processes between both internal and external trading partners. Logility intends to continue to focus its development initiatives on enhancing its end-to-end solution, expanding its embedded performance management architecture and introducing additional capabilities that complement its integrated solution suite. Increase Penetration of International Markets. In the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005, we generated 8% of our total revenues from international sales, resulting from marketing relationships with a number of international distributors. The acquisition of Demand Management by Logility added 9 domestic and 14 international value-added resellers (VARs) to its indirect channel in fiscal 2005. This experienced global distribution network significantly expands Logility’s reach and provides sales, implementation and support resources serving customers in 70 countries. We and Logility intend to further expand our international presence by creating additional relationships with distributors in South America, Europe, and the Asia/Pacific region. Expand Strategic Relationships. Logility intends to expand the depth and number of strategic relationships with leading enterprise software, systems integrators and service providers to integrate the Logility Voyager Solutions suite into their services and products and to create joint marketing opportunities. Logility has a number of marketing alliances, including those with IBM and SSA Global Technologies. In addition, Logility has developed a network of international agents who assist in the sale and support of its products. Logility intends to utilize these and future relationships with software and service organizations to enhance its sales and marketing position. Continue to Focus on Providing High Quality Customer Service. Providing high quality customer service is a critical element of our strategy. We intend to continue to invest in technology and personnel to accommodate the needs of our growing customer base. We will continue to seek new ways to improve service to our customers. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Implement E-Business Strategy. Logility has launched an e-Business initiative that will enable Logility to build on current applications while moving toward total Internet-based value chain management. Logility’s e-Business strategy includes products and services designed to enable the optimization of the customer’s supply chain and improve collaboration. In launching this initiative, Logility intends to do the following: • Continue to develop and sell e-Intelliprise capabilities that capitalize on the speed and flexibility of the Internet with the collaborative planning and logistics capabilities of the software. • Continue to develop and sell the e-Application products that leverage the Internet to improve processes and communications. • Continue to develop and sell the e-Sourcing products that enable global collaborative sourcing over the Internet. Focus on Mid-Market. We have defined as “Mid-Market” those corporations or divisions of corporations that have annual revenues ranging from $200 million to $4 billion. Organizations of this size fit our historical customer profile, and are prime candidates for the purchase and use of our and Logility’s unique full suites of integrated products. There can be no assurance, however, that we and Logility will be successful in implementing the strategy outlined above. Employees As of April 30, 2005, we had 304 full-time employees, including 89 in product research, development and enhancement, 38 in customer support, 92 in professional services, 47 in marketing, sales and sales support, and 38 in accounting, facilities and administration. We believe that our continued success will depend in part on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled technical, marketing and management personnel, who may be in great demand. We believe our employee relations are good. We have never had a work stoppage and no employees are represented under collective bargaining arrangements. 