Item 1A. Risk Factors Here are some of the risks that affect DNB’s business: Our Profitability is Affected by Interest Rate Changes. Our profitability depends largely on our net interest income. This is the difference between our interest income on loans, investments and other assets, and our interest expense on our deposits, borrowing and other liabilities. We try to identify and manage interest rate risk, which is the risk that we will not be able to keep investing our money at a higher rate than we borrow it. To manage interest rate risks, we have to keep track of the interest we earn and the interest we pay. When interest rates change, the relationship between our interest income and our interest expense changes. Interest rate changes can be complex. For example, the relationship between short-term interest rates and long-term interest rates can change. We try to limit the chances that these changes may make us less profitable. The types of assets and liabilities we have can also affect our profitability when interest rates change. For example: (a) Our assets and liabilities may change interest rates at different times. (b) Our assets and liabilities may not mature at the same time. (c) Some types of assets and liabilities may be repayable sooner or later as interest rates change. Normally, we expect our assets and liabilities not to have the same sensitivity to changes in interest rates. This means that a change in interest rates will normally either increase or decrease our net income. As of December 31, 2005, we were in an asset sensitive position, meaning that, when interest rates change, the rates we earn on our assets change more quickly than the rates we pay on our liabilities. In this situation, a decline in interest rates could reduce our net income. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, our liabilities, on average were scheduled to be repaid sooner than our assets. As a result, when short-term interest rates rise faster than long-term interest rates, the interest we pay on our liabilities will increase faster than the interest we receive on our assets, which can reduce our net income. We cannot predict interest rate changes or the relationships between long-term interest rates and short-term interest rates. Heavy Competition. We now face strong competition from many Pennsylvania and out-of-state banking and thrift institutions, many of which have been in business for a number of years and have established customer bases. We expect to continue to face this strong competition in the future. Competition also comes from other businesses that provide financial services, including consumer loan companies, credit unions, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, securities brokerage firms, investment advisors, money market funds and other mutual funds, and private lenders. Many of these competitors have resources greater than ours. They have the advantages of an established market presence and customer base, name recognition and a greater capital base. While our strategy is to attract customers by providing personalized services and making use of the business and personal ties of our management, there is no assurance we will keep or increase market acceptance and be able to operate profitably. Many financial service providers believe our primary market area, Chester County, is an attractive market because of its strong economic growth. As a result, we are experiencing particularly intense competition in our primary marketplace. This includes attempts at new entry into the market by established competitors that had not previously done business in Chester County, as well as the formation of new banks with management that are experienced in the Chester County market. All of these factors may adversely impact our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Small Size and Geographic Restrictions. We are a community bank and do not have the capital resources or the number of people that many of our competitors have. In addition, we cannot provide as many products or services as some of our competitors, making it more difficult for us to compete. Our market territory is relatively small, which limits our ability to diversify our credit risks and increase our business. 10 Real Estate Loans. Like many community banks, many of our loans are commercial loans secured primarily by commercial real estate. We are more vulnerable to losses on these loans if commercial real estate generally suffers a downturn in values. As a result, if commercial real estate values decline in the future, our profitability could be adversely affected. Dependence on Interest Income. Our profitability depends heavily on net interest income. This means we can only be profitable if we lend money at higher interest rates than we borrow it through deposits and other debt. Recently the margin between lending rates and borrowing rates has gotten smaller, causing our net interest income to decline. While we are increasing fee-based income to make us less dependent on interest rates for profitability, we have not completed the implementation of strategies to increase our fee-based income. If interest rate margins shrink further, or if we are unable to diversify our business to generate greater fee-based income, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Dependence on Key Personnel. As a community bank, our success will depend greatly on the continued services of our executive officers. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and if we fail to do that, our profits could be hurt. We may not be successful in continuing to recruit experienced people for positions with us, or in retaining necessary people. If we lose Mr. Latoff’s or Mr. Hieb’s services or those of other key personnel, our future prospects could be harmed. Director and Officer Liability Limitations. Under our articles of incorporation and Pennsylvania law, our directors and officers may not be liable to us unless they breach a duty of loyalty, or they engage in intentional misconduct or violate the law, or if they gain an improper personal benefit. Our bylaws permit us to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law for all expenses incurred in settlement of actions against them in connection with their service to us. Because we indemnify our directors and officers, there is a risk they could make riskier decisions than they would make if we did not offer them this protection. Risks Related to Balance Sheet Repositioning. We announced a comprehensive plan designed to reposition our balance sheet and improve core earnings. The plan calls for a substantial reduction in the size of the investment portfolio and expansion of the loan portfolio through new originations, increased loan participations, as well as strategic loan and lease receivable purchases. We also announced plans to reduce debt borrowings with cash flows from existing loans and investments and from new core deposit growth. It is possible we will not be able to originate new loans or additional core deposits as quickly as planned, or that changes in interest rates will make this strategy less effective in achieving our profitability goals. If we do not achieve our balance sheet repositioning or revenue enhancement goals, our profitability may be adversely affected. Concentration of Voting Control. As of February 21, 2006, William S. Latoff, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, owned 106,956 shares of our common stock, including 4,410 shares of restricted stock that will vest on May 25, 2008. He can also obtain 50,352 additional shares of common stock by exercising options he has previously been granted by the Company. Therefore, with the shares of common stock represented by options, he potentially controls 6.73% of issued and outstanding voting stock. He has expressed his intent to purchase additional shares of our common stock in the future. We are likely to grant him additional stock options, restricted stock or other equity-based compensation that would increase his voting percentage further. Our directors and officers as a group now own a total of 189,140 shares of our common stock, including 16,569 shares of restricted stock that will vest in the future. They can also acquire 175,918 additional shares of common stock by exercising options they have been granted. With the shares of common stock represented by options granted to them, our directors and officers as a group potentially control 14% of our issued and outstanding voting stock. Many of our directors and officers have indicated their intent to purchase additional shares of common stock in the future. Further, it is likely they will be granted additional stock options, restricted stock or other equity-based compensation that would further increase the total voting percentage of our directors and officers. We believe ownership of stock causes our directors and officers to have the same interests as our shareholders, but it also gives them the ability to vote as shareholders for matters that are in their personal interest. 11 Possible Future Capital Needs. There is no assurance we will be able to generate sufficient capital through retained earnings to achieve our operating and growth goals. We may require additional capital in the future to support growth and expansion, to increase our legal lending limit, and to accept increased deposits. If we are not able to raise sufficient capital at an acceptable cost, we may not reach our profitability goals and the value of a shareholder’s investment may be adversely affected. Possible Dilution from Future Equity or Debt Offerings. We may make additional offerings of equity or debt privately or publicly without further approval by holders of our common stock. These offerings may include senior debt, subordinated debt, additional trust preferred securities or common or preferred stock, any of which we can issue without shareholder approval. Additional debt or equity could be issued at prices that are greater or lower than the market price of our shares. The offerings could dilute the book value, voting control or market value of shares you purchase under the Plan. If the Economy Gets Worse in Our Market, our Profits Could Be Hurt. Recent news reports indicate economists think the U.S. economy might not do well in 2006. Our profits can be hurt if the economy does not do well in areas where we do business, because we may not be able to find as many creditworthy borrowers, or borrowers may decide to borrow less, or our losses on defaulted loans can increase if borrowers have financial problems. If our Allowance for Credit Losses is Not Enough to Cover Future Credit Losses, or if We Do Not Manage our Credit Risks, our Earnings Could Decrease. We make assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loans, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing our loans. To determine our allowance for credit losses, we review our loans and our experience with loan losses and late loan payments, and we evaluate economic conditions. If we make the wrong assumptions, our allowance for credit losses may not be large enough to cover future losses on our loans. We also might make other mistakes in managing our credit risks. For example, we might not identify credit risks in a loan or in our portfolio accurately. We might make mistakes in managing our loans or in trying to recover losses. These mistakes might reduce our income, or require us to apply more of our income to add to the allowance for credit losses, or both. Either of these results would hurt our profits. Our bank regulators also have to review our allowance for credit losses. If our regulators decide we should increase it, we have to apply more of our income to do so, which might reduce our profits. We Have a Concentration of Exposure to Some Borrowers, Which Adds to our Risks. The total amount of loans we make to a group of related borrowers is called our exposure to a borrowing relationship. As of December 31, 2005, the largest exposure we had to a group of related borrowers was $4.8 million. This equaled 8.0% of the total amount of our regulatory capital. For these purposes, our regulatory capital includes our stated capital, our capital surplus, and certain portions of our allowance for credit losses, with further adjustments, as required by our banking regulators. The standard lending limit for national banks is equal to 15% of this regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2005, our total exposure to our 10 largest borrowing relationships was approximately $35.2 million. This was approximately 60% of our regulatory capital for these purposes. Because a default on a loan to one borrower in a group of related borrowers can often result in defaults on the other loans to related borrowers, and because larger loan amounts produce more losses to a bank when they go into a default, if any of these loans goes into default and we cannot recover all we have lent, there is a greater risk that a default on these loans will produce a greater loss, and consequently a greater reduction in our profitability. If the total exposure to a few borrowing relationships gets too big in relation to a bank’s capital, it increases the risk that loan defaults on those borrowing relationships will reduce the bank’s capital. Without enough capital, a bank cannot operate profitably and may be subject to regulatory enforcement action. Changes in Regulations and Accounting Rules May Hurt our Revenue. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires many companies to spend a lot of money to strengthen their internal control. We do not know yet whether that requirement will apply to us, but we have to make changes in our accounting and auditing in case it will. In addition, our auditors are charging us more because they have to do more work in auditing our records. Other recent accounting changes, such as the new rules for recognizing expenses associated with the value of stock options we grant to employees, are changing our accounting and business practices. The USA Patriot Act, OFAC and new regulations under the Bank Secrecy Act are also costing us a lot of money and are expected to cost substantially more during 2006 and succeeding years as we augment our BSA compliance program. The Bank may not be in full compliance in these areas and, while management is actively assessing and working to strengthen the Bank’s BSA, OFAC and Patriot Act compliance, there is a risk that the Bank could be exposed to enforcement action, civil money penalties or other adverse actions in the future based on any shortcomings that may be identified in the Bank’s historic BSA compliance program implementation. Other new bank regulations are also being adopted, and we must spend money to comply with them. In other cases, such as with our trust preferred securities, Bank Owned Life Insurance and tax and accounting positions we have taken, we depend upon Congress, regulatory agencies and accounting rulemaking bodies not to make changes in their current positions on the proper treatment of many of our activities. Any changes in these positions could hurt our financial position and our profitability. We do not know what other rules will be adopted in the future or whether new rules will be adopted. New rules and changes in rules may increase our expenses in complying with them. This may hurt our future profits in ways we cannot predict now. 12 Unexpected Events Affecting our Marketing Partners Could Hurt Our Revenues. Over recent years, we have sold more products and services jointly with other organizations, and we have relied more on other organizations to provide services to us to support our activities. We believe this trend will continue and that we will be more dependent in the future on other organizations in order to run our business efficiently and profitably. If an unexpected loss or problem affects one of these organizations, it could cost us money or hurt our ability to be profitable. While we try to plan for these risks, we may not predict some of these types of events. Our Expansion Plans May Not be Successful. We have been adding branches and offices, and we may add more in the future. We do this so that we can provide our products and services to more customers, which we believe will make us more profitable. New offices cost us more money, but we expect them to become profitable after a time. If new offices do not become as profitable as we hope or do not become profitable as quickly as we expect, our profits may be hurt. Unexpected Disasters May Hurt Our Profitability and Your Investment. Terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and natural disaster may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. While we try to make contingency plans to help continue our business if a disaster occurs, we might not anticipate every type of disaster, and our plans might fail. In addition, some disasters might be so overwhelming that we would not be able to recover from them. These situations could hurt our profitability and in the worst case could destroy our business and wipe out your investment. Here are some risks that do not affect our business but could affect the value of an investment in DNB Common Stock: On a Liquidation or in Certain Other Cases, Our Debt Holders May Hold Rights Superior to Shareholders. We have issued trust preferred securities that constitute indebtedness. These securities contain covenants requiring us to repay the debt with interest. If we fail to do so, the holders of that debt will have rights to seek repayment, and their claims on our assets will have priority over your claim as a shareholder. Our Governing Documents May Reduce the Influence of an Individual Shareholder. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws give our directors substantial control over who sits on our board of directors and what proposals are presented to our shareholder to consider. For example, the board is divided into three staggered classes of directors. Only one class gets re-elected each year. As a result, it may take at least two years for a majority of directors to change. Second, under our articles of incorporation, a shareholder may not cumulate votes for the election of directors. As a result, the same majority of shareholders may control the election of each director position. Third, our bylaws impose time limits and other requirements on a shareholder who wants to nominate a director or make a proposal for new business at a shareholder meeting. As a result, the nomination or proposal may be delayed until the shareholder meets these requirements. These provisions may also give our management more time to evaluate and respond to a shareholder nomination or proposal and, if management believes the nomination or proposal is not in the best interests of shareholders, to advocate that it not be adopted. 13 Our Governing Documents May Make it More Difficult for Another Company to Buy DNB. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it harder for another company to acquire control of DNB. For example, a change in control of DNB cannot occur unless it has been approved by shareholders owning at least 75% of the shares of DNB common stock or by two-thirds of DNB’s directors. In addition, the board of directors may oppose another company’s offer to buy DNB from its shareholders and in doing so may consider many factors not directly involving the current value of DNB stock. We believe these provisions help DNB become more profitable because they let our management concentrate on developing the profitability of DNB’s business for the benefit of our shareholders. As a result of these provisions, if another company tries to offer shareholders a higher price than shareholders can obtain by selling them in the open market, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares to the other company without the approval of our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 