Item 1A. Risk Factors Here are some of the risks that affect DNB's business: Difficult economic conditions and market volatility have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. 13 Table of Contents As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: •Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. •Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. •Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. •Further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to the market developments which have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (the "EESA"). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the CPP, in which DNB participated. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC's TLGP. On February 10, 2009, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner announced the Financial Stability Plan, which earmarks the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA"), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions participating in TARP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, as supplemented by the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the Financial Stability Plan and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents The EESA, ARRA and the Financial Stability Plan are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government's efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect DNB's' ability to retain its highest performing employees. In the case of a company such as DNB that received CPP funds, the ARRA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to certain executives. Depending upon the limitations placed on incentive compensation by the final regulations issued under the ARRA, it is possible that DNB may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits DNB to retain its highest performing employees. If this were to occur, DNB' businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that DNB will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several factors could cause the market price for our common shares to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: •announcements of developments related to our business; •fluctuations in our results of operations; •sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; •general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; •a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' expectations; and •our announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. Our Profitability is Affected by Interest Rate Changes. Our profitability depends largely on our net interest income. This is the difference between our interest income on loans, investments and other assets, and our interest expense on our deposits, borrowing and other liabilities. We try to identify and manage interest rate risk, which is the risk that we will not be able to keep investing our money at a higher rate than we borrow it. To manage interest rate risks, we have to keep track of the interest we earn and the interest we pay. When interest rates change, the relationship between our interest income and our interest expense changes. Interest rate changes can be complex. For example, the relationship between short-term interest rates and long-term interest rates can change. We try to limit the chances that these changes may make us less profitable. The types of assets and liabilities we have can also affect our profitability when interest rates change. For example: (a)Our assets and liabilities may change interest rates at different times. (b)Our assets and liabilities may not mature at the same time. (c)Some types of assets and liabilities may be repayable sooner or later as interest rates change. Normally, we expect our assets and liabilities not to have the same sensitivity to changes in interest rates. This means that a change in interest rates will normally either increase or decrease our net income. As of December 31, 2008, our assets, on average were scheduled to re-price sooner than our liabilities. As a result, when short-term interest rates fall faster than long-term interest rates, the interest we receive on 15 Table of Contents our assets will decrease faster than the interest we pay on our liabilities, which can reduce our net income. We cannot predict interest rate changes or the relationships between long-term interest rates and short-term interest rates. Capital constraints could limit our growth. The Corporation and Bank, while considered "well capitalized" for regulatory capital purposes, have seen their capital ratios gradually decline recently due to the market conditions and their consequences described above. The Corporation's ability to grow is contingent upon its ability to generate sufficient additional capital though earnings and or other sources. The Corporation took steps to strengthening its capital position through its recent $11.8 million participation in the CPP. However, the Corporation may need additional capital to fund further growth, possible acquisitions, and the repayment of the CPP funds it received. If the Corporation is unable to generate sufficient additional capital though its earnings or other sources, the Corporation's ability to grow, make acquisitions and relieve itself of the cost of the CPP issuance may be hurt. Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh suspends dividend and capital stock repurchase. On December 23, 2008, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (also called the FHLBP) announced that it will indefinitely suspend dividend payments and repurchases of excess capital stock, due to low short-term interest rates, increased costs of maintaining liquidity and constrained access to debt markets at attractive rates. The FHLBP is a primary source of liquidity for the Bank. While the Bank does have other available sources of liquidity and credit, such as attracting additional deposits, the Federal Reserve window, and funding in the bank markets, if current economic conditions hurt the FHLBP's ability to provide liquidity and credit to the Bank, the Bank's flexibility and ability to obtain liquidity and credit on favorable terms could be hurt, which could reduce our profitability. Heavy Competition. We now face strong competition from many Pennsylvania and out-of-state banking and thrift institutions, many of which have been in business for a number of years and have established customer bases. We expect to continue to face this strong competition in the future. Competition also comes from other businesses that provide financial services, including consumer loan companies, credit unions, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, securities brokerage firms, investment advisors, money market funds and other mutual funds, and private lenders. Many of these competitors have resources greater than ours. They have the advantages of an established market presence and customer base, name recognition and a greater capital base. While our strategy is to attract customers by providing personalized services and making use of the business and personal ties of our management, there is no assurance we will keep or increase market acceptance and be able to operate profitably. Many financial service providers believe our primary market area, Chester and Delaware Counties, is an attractive market because of its strong economic growth. As a result, we are experiencing intense competition in our primary marketplace. This includes attempts at new entry into the market by established competitors that had not previously done business in DNB's market area, as well as the formation of new banks with management that are experienced in DNB's market area. All of these factors may adversely impact our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Small Size and Geographic Restrictions. We are a community bank and do not have the capital resources or the number of people that many of our competitors have. In addition, we cannot provide as many products or services as some of our competitors, making it more difficult for us to compete. Our market territory is relatively small, which limits our ability to diversify our credit risks and increase our business. Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, businesses and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market during 2008, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit 16 Table of Contents default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on Interest Income. Our profitability depends heavily on net interest income. This means we can only be profitable if we lend money at higher interest rates than we borrow it through deposits and other debt. Recently the margin between lending rates and borrowing rates has gotten smaller, causing our net interest income to decline. While we are increasing fee-based income to make us less dependent on interest rates for profitability, we have not completed the implementation of strategies to increase our fee-based income. If interest rate margins shrink further, or if we are unable to diversify our business to generate greater fee-based income, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Dependence on Key Personnel. As a community bank, our success will depend greatly on the continued services of our executive officers. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and if we fail to do that, our profits could be hurt. We may not be successful in continuing to recruit experienced people for positions with us, or in retaining necessary people. If we lose Mr. Latoff's or Mr. Hieb's services or those of other key personnel, our future prospects could be harmed. Director and Officer Liability Limitations. Under our articles of incorporation and Pennsylvania law, our directors and officers may not be liable to us unless they breach a duty of loyalty, or they engage in intentional misconduct or violate the law, or if they gain an improper personal benefit. Our bylaws permit us to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law for all expenses incurred in settlement of actions against them in connection with their service to us. Because we indemnify our directors and officers, there is a risk they could make riskier decisions than they would make if we did not offer them this protection. Risks Related to the Execution of DNB's Strategic Plan. During the second quarter of 2008, management updated the 5-year strategic plan that was designed to reposition its balance sheet and improve core earnings. The plan calls for a reduction in the size of the investment portfolio and expansion of the loan portfolio through new originations, increased loan participations, as well as strategic loan and lease receivable purchases. We also plan to reduce debt borrowings with cash flows from existing loans and investments and from new core deposit growth. It is possible we will not be able to originate new loans or additional core deposits as quickly as planned, or that changes in interest rates will make this strategy less effective in achieving our profitability goals. If we do not achieve our balance sheet repositioning or revenue enhancement goals, our profitability may be adversely affected. Concentration of Voting Control. As of March 5, 2009, William S. Latoff, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, owned 154,553 shares of our common stock, including 3,150 and 3,000 shares of unvested stock that will vest on November 28, 2010 and December 17, 2011, respectively. He can also obtain 53,622 additional shares of common stock by exercising options he has previously been granted by the Company. Therefore, with the shares of common stock represented by options, he potentially controls 7.38% of issued and outstanding voting stock. He has expressed his intent to purchase additional shares of our common stock in the future. We are likely to grant him additional stock options, unvested stock or other equity-based compensation that would increase his voting percentage further. As of March 5, 2009 our directors and officers as a group own a total of 306,294 shares of our common stock, including 20,401 17 Table of Contents shares of unvested stock that will vest in the future. They can also acquire 137,830 additional shares of common stock by exercising options they have been granted. With the shares of common stock represented by options granted to them, our directors and officers as a group potentially control 15.75% of our issued and outstanding voting stock. Many of our directors and officers have indicated their intent to purchase additional shares of common stock in the future. Further, it is likely they will be granted additional stock options, unvested stock or other equity-based compensation that would further increase the total voting percentage of our directors and officers. We believe ownership of stock causes our directors and officers to have the same interests as our shareholders, but it also gives them the ability to vote as shareholders for matters that are in their personal interest. If our Allowance for Credit Losses is Not Enough to Cover Future Credit Losses, or if We Do Not Manage our Credit Risks, our Earnings Could Decrease. We make assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loans, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing our loans. To determine our allowance for credit losses, we review our loans and our experience with loan losses and late loan payments, and we evaluate economic conditions. If we make the wrong assumptions, our allowance for credit losses may not be large enough to cover future losses on our loans. We also might make other mistakes in managing our credit risks. For example, we might not identify credit risks in a loan or in our portfolio accurately. We might make mistakes in managing our loans or in trying to recover losses. These mistakes might reduce our income, or require us to apply more of our income to add to the allowance for credit losses, or both. Either of these results would hurt our profits. Our bank regulators also have to review our allowance for credit losses. If our regulators decide we should increase it, we have to apply more of our income to do so, which might reduce our profits. We Have a Concentration of Exposure to Some Borrowers, Which Adds to our Risks. The total amount of loans we make to a group of related borrowers is called our exposure to a borrowing relationship. As of December 31, 2008, the largest exposure we had to a group of related borrowers was $5.1 million. This equaled 11.2% of the total amount of our regulatory capital. For these purposes, our regulatory capital includes our stated capital, our capital surplus, and certain portions of our allowance for credit losses, with further adjustments, as required by our banking regulators. The standard lending limit for national banks is equal to 15% of this regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2008, our total exposure to our 10 largest borrowing relationships was approximately $46.9 million. This was approximately 103% of our regulatory capital for these purposes. Because a default on a loan to one borrower in a group of related borrowers can often result in defaults on the other loans to related borrowers, and because larger loan amounts produce more losses to a bank when they go into a default, if any of these loans goes into default and we cannot recover all we have lent, there is a greater risk that a default on these loans will produce a greater loss, and consequently a greater reduction in our profitability. If the total exposure to a few borrowing relationships gets too big in relation to a bank's capital, it increases the risk that loan defaults on those borrowing relationships will reduce the bank's capital. Without enough capital, a bank cannot operate profitably and may be subject to regulatory enforcement action. Unexpected Events Affecting our Marketing Partners Could Hurt Our Revenues. Over recent years, we have sold more products and services jointly with other organizations, and we have relied more on other organizations to provide services to us to support our activities. We believe this trend will continue and that we will be more dependent in the future on other organizations in order to run our business efficiently and profitably. If an unexpected loss or problem affects one of these organizations, it could cost us money or hurt our ability to be profitable. While we try to plan for these risks, we may not predict some of these types of events. Our Expansion Plans May Not be Successful. We have been adding branches and offices, and we may add more in the future. We do this so that we can provide our products and services to more customers, which we believe will make us more profitable. New offices cost us more money, but we expect them to 18 Table of Contents become profitable after a time. If new offices do not become as profitable as we hope or do not become profitable as quickly as we expect, our profits may be hurt. Unexpected Disasters May Hurt Our Profitability and Your Investment. Terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and natural disaster may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. While we try to make contingency plans to help continue our business if a disaster occurs, we might not anticipate every type of disaster, and our plans might fail. In addition, some disasters might be so overwhelming that we would not be able to recover from them. These situations could hurt our profitability and in the worst case could destroy our business and wipe out your investment. Here are some risks that do not directly affect our business operations but could affect the value of an investment in DNB Common Stock: Our participation in the U.S. Treasury's CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets. On January 30, 2009 DNB issued and sold preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of its CPP. Prior to January 30, 2012, unless we have redeemed all of the preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the quarterly payment of dividends on our common stock to $0.13 per share (our current quarterly dividend rate is $.065 per share) without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. Possible Future Capital Needs. There is no assurance we will be able to generate sufficient capital through retained earnings to achieve our operating and growth goals. We may require additional capital in the future to support growth and expansion, to increase our legal lending limit, and to accept increased deposits. If we are not able to raise sufficient capital at an acceptable cost, we may not reach our profitability goals and the value of a shareholder's investment may be adversely affected. Possible Dilution from Future Equity or Debt Offerings. We may make additional offerings of equity or debt privately or publicly without further approval by holders of our common stock. These offerings may include senior debt, subordinated debt, additional trust preferred securities or common or preferred stock, any of which we can issue without shareholder approval. Additional debt or equity could be issued at prices that are greater or lower than the market price of our shares. The offerings could dilute the book value, voting control or market value of shares you purchase under the Plan. On a Liquidation or in Certain Other Cases, Our Debt Holders May Hold Rights Superior to Shareholders. We have issued cumulative perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred securities that constitute indebtedness. These securities contain covenants requiring us to repay the debt with interest. If we fail to do so, the holders of that debt will have rights to seek repayment, and their claims on our assets will have priority over your claim as a shareholder. Our Governing Documents May Reduce the Influence of an Individual Shareholder. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws give our directors substantial control over who sits on our Board of directors and what proposals are presented to our shareholder to consider. For example, the board is divided into three staggered classes of directors. Only one class gets re-elected each year. As a result, it may take at least two years for a majority of directors to change. Second, under our articles of incorporation, a shareholder may not cumulate votes for the election of directors. As a result, the same majority of shareholders may control the election of each director position. Third, our bylaws impose time limits and other requirements on a shareholder who wants to nominate a director or make a proposal for new business at a shareholder meeting. As a result, the nomination or proposal may be delayed until the shareholder meets these 19 Table of Contents requirements. These provisions may also give our management more time to evaluate and respond to a shareholder nomination or proposal and, if management believes the nomination or proposal is not in the best interests of shareholders, to advocate that it not be adopted. Our Governing Documents May Make it More Difficult for Another Company to Buy DNB. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it harder for another company to acquire control of DNB. For example, a change in control of DNB cannot occur unless it has been approved by shareholders owning at least 75% of the shares of DNB common stock or by two-thirds of DNB's directors. In addition, the board of directors may oppose another company's offer to buy DNB from its shareholders and in doing so may consider many factors not directly involving the current value of DNB stock. We believe these provisions help DNB become more profitable because they let our management concentrate on developing the profitability of DNB's business for the benefit of our shareholders. As a result of these provisions, if another company tries to offer shareholders a higher price than shareholders can obtain by selling them in the open market, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares to the other company without the approval of our board of directors. Current levels of market volatility may hurt the value of our stock. Due to the adverse market and economic conditions described above, the market price for our common shares may fluctuate substantially. This may prevent us from taking advantage of acquisition opportunities. It may also hurt our ability to attract and retain executive talent, who are often provided incentive compensation related to our financial success. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 