item 1a. risk factors We have sought to identify what we believe to be the most significant risks to our business. However, we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, any of such risks may be realized nor can we guarantee that we have identified all possible risks that might arise. Investors should carefully consider all of such risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to our Common Stock. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed here could affect us. We expect to incur losses in the future and may not achieve or maintain profitability We have incurred net losses since we began our current operations in 2004. Our net loss was approximately $1,773,196 for our year ended December 31, 2008, and approximately $542,756 for the year ended December 31, 2007. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in our sales and marketing programs and research and development, resulting in a substantial increase in our operating expenses. Consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from sales of our products and related professional services to become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition to funding operations through increased revenue, we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital before reaching profitability. We cannot predict when we will operate profitably, if at all. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability, our stock price may decline. We have a limited operating history with which you can evaluate our current business model and prospects We acquired Wound Care Innovations in August of 2004 and we have not been profitable to date. Although we have seen our sales increase in the four and a half years since the acquisition, we cannot predict if and when we may become profitable. Even if we become profitable in the future, we cannot accurately predict the level of, or our ability to sustain profitability. Because we have not yet been profitable and cannot predict any level of future profitability, you bear the risk of a complete loss of your investment in the event our business plan is unsuccessful. 4 • Because our products are still at a relatively early stage of commercialization, it is difficult for us to forecast the full level of market acceptance that our solution will attain; • competitors may develop products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive or that shorten the life cycles of our products. Although we have had initial success, the market may not continue to accept our wound care products; • we may not be able to attract and retain a broad customer base; and • we may not be able to negotiate and maintain favorable strategic relationships. Failure to successfully manage these risks could harm our business and cause our stock price to fall. Furthermore, to remain competitive, we will need to add to our current product line, and we may not succeed in creating and marketing new products. A decline in demand for, or in the average price of, our wound care products would have a direct negative effect on our business and could cause our stock price to fall. Our products are manufactured only by Applied Nutritionals Applied Nutritionals holds the patent to, and is currently the sole source of the products we offer for sale. Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depends in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of product from our manufacturer. We may in the future experience a shortage of product as a result of manufacturing process issues or capacity problems at our supplier, or strong demand for the ingredients constituting our products. If shortages or delays persist, the cost to manufacture our products may increase, or may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough product at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to meet our or our customer’s needs. Accordingly, our revenues could suffer and our costs could increase until other sources can be developed. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. The fact that we do not own our manufacturing facilities could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on operating results. While we will have the ability to manufacture these products in the event that Applied Nutritionals is not able to fulfill our product orders, in such event, we may temporarily be prevented from marketing and selling our products until we were able to locate a substitute manufacturer. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive, which could adversely affect our revenue growth The market for wound care products is intensely competitive. Competition in the wound care market is heavy among a vast array of medical devices, drugs, and therapies. Many of our existing and potential competitors have better brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases and are very well capitalized and will continue to compete aggressively. Most companies providing wound care products are able to offer customers multiple products. By doing so, they effectively offset the cost of customer acquisition and support across several revenue sources. With only one product line, our costs are relatively much higher and may prevent us from achieving strong profitability. Further, although our wound care products have performed well in customer evaluations, we are a relatively unknown entity with a relatively unknown brand in a market significantly controlled by much larger products companies. We may not, even with strong customer accounts, be able to establish the credibility necessary to secure large national customers. Our competitors may be able to keep us out of some distribution channels, close us out from some larger accounts with “Master Contracts” for full product lines, and create market awareness that hinders our abilities to secure key accounts in a cost effective way. Increased competition could significantly reduce our future revenue and increase our operating losses due to price reductions, lower gross margins or lost market share, which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. 5 Product liability exposure We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of any product we sell results in injury. Such claims may include, among others, that these products contain contaminants or include inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. We do not have, and do not anticipate obtaining, contractual indemnification from parties supplying raw materials or marketing the products we sell. In any event, any such indemnification if obtained would be limited by our terms and, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Federal regulations and changes in reimbursement policies Our CellerateRx products are currently classified by the FDA as Class I medical devices, and are further classified as dressings and are cleared for marketing for the following indications: pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers, surgical wounds, ulcers due to arterial insufficiency, traumatic wounds, 1st and 2nd degree burns, and superficial wounds. Because our products are classified by the FDA as medical devices and not drugs, we were not required to pursue stringent clinical trials. Many physicians and larger, sophisticated healthcare provider organizations, however, often require clinical studies demonstrating specific performance capabilities of any new products. We do not have results from controlled clinical studies and the lack of such studies could adversely affect our ability to obtain large institutional customers. Further, if the FDA were to change its policies regarding the classification or marketing of our products for any reason, we would likely be required to conduct and submit data to satisfy additional requirements. Healthcare services are heavily reliant upon health insurance reimbursement. Although many current insurance plans place much of the financial risk on providers of care (allowing them to choose whatever products/therapies are most cost effective) under capitated or prospective payment structures, much of our business is related to Medicare-eligible populations. Although our products are currently eligible for reimbursement under Medicare Part B, adjustments to our reimbursement amounts or a change in Medicare’s reimbursement policies could have an adverse effect on our ability to pursue market opportunities. If we cannot meet our future capital requirements, our business will suffer We will need additional financing to continue operating our business. We need to raise additional funds in the future through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • fund operating losses; • scale sales and marketing to address the market for wound care products; • take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion or acquisitions of complementary products or businesses; • hire, train and retain employees; • develop new products; or • respond to economic and competitive pressures. If our capital needs are met through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. Our future success may be determined in large part by our ability to obtain additional financing, and we can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining adequate financing on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our operating results and financial condition may suffer, and our stock price may decline. 6 Our operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our stock price We are an emerging company. As such, our quarterly revenue and results of operations are difficult to predict. We have experienced fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and anticipate that these fluctuations will continue until the company reaches critical mass and the market becomes more stable. These fluctuations are due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: • the fact that we are a relatively young company with relatively young products; • our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; • the length and variability of our sales cycle, which makes it difficult to forecast the quarter in which our sales will occur; • the amount and timing of operating expense relating to the expansion of our business and operations; • the development of new wound care products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our financial statements; and • how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. We also typically realize a significant portion of our revenue in the last few weeks of a quarter because of our customers' purchasing patterns. As a result, we are subject to significant variations in license revenue and results of operations if we incur a delay in a large customer's order. If we fail to close one or more significant license agreements that we have targeted to close in a given quarter, this failure could seriously harm our operating results for that quarter. Failure to meet or exceed the expectation of securities analysts or investors due to any of these or other factors may cause our stock price to fall. Our revenues for a particular period are difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenues may harm our operating results As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenues for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate, or may decline. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations as we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Disruption of, or changes in, our distribution model or customer base could harm our sales and margins If we fail to manage the distribution of our products properly, or if the financial condition or operations of our reseller channels weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. Furthermore, a change in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. Several factors could also result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model or customer base, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following: 7 • in some instances, we compete with some of our resellers through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products; • some of our resellers may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions; Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. While we have the exclusive license underlying our collagen based CellerateRx products, there can be no assurance that these patents or our other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will in fact provide competitive advantages to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful. We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others Third parties, including customers, may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions may emerge over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the healthcare field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives Our success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain skilled executive, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense in the market today. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly executive management, engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. Our stock price may continue to be volatile Significant variations in our quarterly operating results may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history, and we expect to experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results. These fluctuations have been and may in the future be caused by numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and that you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. Also, it is likely that our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 8 In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many small companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom we anticipate compensating in part based on the performance of our stock price. Failure to manage our planned growth could harm our business Our ability to successfully market and sell our wound care products and implement our business plan requires an effective plan for managing our future growth. We plan to increase the scope of our operations at a rapid rate. Future expansion efforts will be expensive and may strain our managerial and other resources. To manage future growth effectively, we must maintain and enhance our financial and accounting systems and controls, integrate new personnel and manage expanded operations. If we do not manage growth properly, it could harm our operating results and financial condition and cause our stock price to fall. A few of our existing shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock and will have a significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval and could delay or prevent a change in control You may lack an effective vote on corporate matters and management may be able to act contrary to your objectives. Our officers and board members own approximately 52.2% of the 27,233,221 shares of our common stock outstanding. If management votes together, it will influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, mergers and asset sales. As a result, new stockholders may lack an effective vote with respect to the election of directors and other corporate matters. Therefore, it is possible that management may take actions with respect to its ownership interest, which may not be consistent with your objectives or desires. For example, our officers, directors and principal stockholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Please see “Principal Stockholders” for a more detailed description of our share ownership. liquidity of our common stock Although there is a public market for our common stock, trading volume has been historically low which substantially increases your risk of loss. We can give no assurance that an active and liquid public market for the shares of the common stock will develop in the future. Low trading volume in our common stock could affect your ability to sell the shares of common stock. The development of a public trading market depends upon not only the existence of willing buyers and sellers, but also on market makers. The market bid and asked prices for the shares may be significantly influenced by decisions of the market makers to buy or sell the shares for their own account, which may be critical for the establishment and maintenance of a liquid public market in the shares. Market makers are not required to maintain a continuous two-sided market and are free to withdraw firm quotations at any time. Additionally, in order to maintain our eligibility for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board, we need to have at least one registered and active market maker. No assurance can be given that any market making activities of any additional market makers will commence or that the activities of current market makers will be continued. Sales of our common stock in the public market may lower our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in future offerings Future sales of large amounts of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. Substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable, without restriction or registration under the Securities Act, other than the sales volume restrictions of Rule 144 applicable to shares held beneficially by persons who may be deemed to be affiliates. The price of our common stock could also drop as a result of the exercise of options for common stock or the perception that such sales or exercise of options could occur. These factors also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock. 9 As of March 31, 2009 there were 27,237,310 shares of common stock issued and 27,233,221 outstanding. In addition warrants representing 1,000,000 shares of common stock are currently outstanding. Our Articles and Bylaws may delay or prevent a potential takeover of us Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and Bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a potential takeover of us, even if the takeover is in the best interest of our stockholders. The Bylaws limit when stockholders may call a special meeting of stockholders. The Articles also allow the Board of Directors to fill vacancies, including newly created directorships. No Dividend payments We have not paid and do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the current return you may receive on your investment in our common stock. Future dividends on our common stock, if any, will depend on our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. We currently intend to retain earnings, if any, to increase our net worth and reserves. Therefore, we do not anticipate that any holder of common stock will receive any cash, stock or other dividends on our shares of common stock at any time in the near future. You should not expect or rely on the potential payment of dividends as a source of current income. “Penny Stock” Limitations Our common stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board. Since our common stock continues to trade below $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock" and is subject to SEC rules and regulations, which impose limitations upon the manner in which our shares can be publicly traded. These regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, certain brokers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination regarding such a purchaser and receive such purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. These regulations have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our common stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. Stockholders should be aware that, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 34- 29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. These patterns include: Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; "Boiler room" practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Furthermore, the "penny stock" designation may adversely affect the development of any public market for the Company’s shares of common stock or, if such a market develops, its continuation. Broker-dealers are required to personally determine whether an investment in "penny stock" is suitable for customers. 10 Penny stocks are securities (i) with a price of less than five dollars per share; (ii) that are not traded on a "recognized" national exchange; (iii) whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stocks must still meet requirement (i) above); or (iv) of an issuer with net tangible assets less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average annual revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 of the Commission require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor's account. Potential investors in the Company’s common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be "penny stock." Rule 15g-9 of the Commission requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for the Company’s stockholders to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Actual events or results may differ materially. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risks outlined in the “Risk Factors” section above. These factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures we make in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in the future operating results over time. Our management believes its assumptions are based upon reasonable data derived from and known about our business and operations. No assurances are made that our actual results of operations or the results of our future activities will not differ materially from these assumptions. item 1b. unresolved staff comments None 