Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered with respect to making any investment in our securities as such an investment involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and the other information set forth elsewhere in this report, including the financial statements and related notes, before you decide to purchase shares of our stock. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our stock could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose part or all of your investment. We expect to incur losses in the future and may not achieve or maintain profitability We have incurred net losses since we began our current operations in 2004. (see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). We expect to make significant investments in our sales and marketing programs resulting in a substantial increase in our operating expenses. Consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve and maintain profitability in the future. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from sales of our products to become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition to funding operations through increased revenue, we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital before reaching profitability. We cannot predict when we will operate profitably, if at all. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability, our stock price may decline. We have a limited operating history with which you can evaluate our current business model and prospects We acquired WCI in August of 2004, and we have not been profitable to date. Although we have seen our sales increase since the acquisition, we cannot predict if or when we may become profitable. Even if we become profitable in the future, we cannot accurately predict the level of or our ability to sustain profitability. Because we have not yet been profitable and cannot predict any level of future profitability, you bear the risk of a complete loss of your investment in the event our business plan is unsuccessful. ● Because our products are still at a relatively early stage of commercialization, it is difficult for us to forecast the full level of market acceptance that our solution will attain; ● Competitors may develop products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive or that shorten the life cycles of our products. Although we have had initial success, the market may not continue to accept our wound care products; ● We may not be able to attract and retain a broad customer base; and ● We may not be able to negotiate and maintain favorable strategic relationships. Failure to successfully manage these risks could harm our business and cause our stock price to fall. Furthermore, to remain competitive, we will need to add to our current product line, and we may not succeed in creating and marketing new products. A decline in demand for or in the average price of our wound care products would have a direct negative effect on our business and could cause our stock price to fall. 6 WCI products are manufactured only by Applied Nutritionals Applied Nutritionals holds the patent to, and is currently the sole source of the WCI products we offer for sale (the “WCI Products”), which WCI Products make up a substantial portion of our business. Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depends in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of the WCI Products from our manufacturer. We may in the future experience a shortage of the WCI Products as a result of manufacturing process issues or capacity problems at our supplier or strong demand for the ingredients constituting WCI Products. If shortages or delays persist, the cost to manufacture the WCI Products may increase or the WCI Products may not be available at all. We may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough WCI Products at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to meet our or our customer’s needs. Accordingly, our revenues could suffer and our costs could increase until other sources can be developed. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. The fact that we do not own our manufacturing facilities could have an adverse impact on the supply of the WCI Products and on operating results. In the event that Applied Nutritionals is not able to fulfill orders for WCI Products, we may temporarily be prevented from marketing and selling the WCI Products until we are able to locate a substitute manufacturer. The patent on the CellerateRX products expires in 2018. CellerateRx products currently benefit from the protection of a patent that will expire in 2018. Upon expiration of the patent, such products may become subject to increased competition resulting from the marketing of generic products, and the Company’s performance may suffer as a result. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive, which could adversely affect our revenue growth The market for wound care products is intensely competitive among a vast array of medical devices, drugs and therapies. Many of our existing and potential competitors have better brand recognition, longer operating histories and larger customer bases. These competitors are very well capitalized and will continue to compete aggressively. Most companies providing wound care products are able to offer customers multiple products. By doing so, they effectively offset the cost of customer acquisition and support across several revenue sources. In 2012 the Company began to broaden our market with the addition of a surgical product line. In 2014 the surgical product line saw increased sales and the Company is hopeful that it will continue to grow to strengthen our ability to succeed. While the Company got its ROP product line underway in 2013 it received royalties from its sales in 2014. The Company plans to market and/or license more ROP products in 2015. Further, although our wound care products have performed well in customer evaluations, we are a relatively unknown entity with a relatively unknown brand in a market significantly controlled by companies with a much larger customer base. We may not, even with strong customer accounts, be able to establish the credibility necessary to secure large national customers. Product liability exposure Although we have contractual indemnity from the manufacturer of CellerateRX for liability claims related to the products, there is risk of exposure in the event that the use of any other product we sell in the future results in injury. We do not have, and do not anticipate obtaining, contractual indemnification from parties supplying raw materials or marketing the products we sell. In any event, such indemnification, if obtained, would be limited by our terms and, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Federal regulations and changes in reimbursement policies Healthcare services are heavily reliant upon health insurance reimbursement. Although many current insurance plans place much of the financial risk on providers of care (allowing them to choose whatever products/therapies are most cost effective) under prospective payment structures, much of our business is related to Medicare-eligible populations. Although our wound care products are currently eligible for reimbursement under Medicare Part B, adjustments to our reimbursement amounts or a change in Medicare’s reimbursement policies could have an adverse effect on our ability to pursue market opportunities in this area. 7 If we cannot meet our future capital requirements, our business will suffer We may need additional financing to continue operating our business. We may need to raise additional funds in the future through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: ● fund operating losses; ● increase sales and marketing to address the market for wound care, surgical and ROP products; ● take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion or acquisitions of complementary products or businesses; ● hire, train and retain employees; ● develop new products; and/or ● respond to economic and competitive pressures. If our capital needs are met through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. Our future success may be determined in large part by our ability to obtain additional financing, and we can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining adequate financing on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, our operating results and financial condition may suffer. Our operating results may fluctuate We are an emerging company. As such, our quarterly revenue and results of operations are difficult to predict. We have experienced fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter and anticipate that these fluctuations will continue until the Company reaches critical mass and the market becomes more stable. These fluctuations are due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: ● the fact that we are a relatively young company; ● our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; ● the length and variability of our sales cycle, which makes it difficult to forecast the quarter in which our sales will occur; ● the amount and timing of operating expense relating to the expansion of our business and operations; ● the development of new wound care products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; ● actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our financial statements; and ● how well we execute our strategy and operating plans. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 Our revenues for a particular period are difficult to predict; a shortfall in revenues may harm our operating results As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenues for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate, or may decline. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations as we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Disruption of, or changes in, our distribution model or customer base could harm our sales and margins If we fail to manage the distribution of our products properly, or if the financial condition or operations of our reseller channels weaken, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. Furthermore, a change in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. Several factors could also result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model or customer base, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following: ● in some instances, we compete with some of our resellers through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products; also ● some of our resellers may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions. Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce We rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Our exclusive license agreement for our collagen based CellerateRX products specifically limits our exclusive rights to the worldwide human healthcare market and specifically excludes the veterinary, nutritional and injectibles markets. There can be no assurance that our other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that our rights will in fact provide competitive advantages to us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as well as the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products necessary to be successful. We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others Third parties, including customers, may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions may emerge over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the healthcare field, the secrecy of some pending patents and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe the patent rights of others. The asserted claims or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 9 Failure to retain and recruit key personnel would harm our ability to meet key objectives Our success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain skilled executive, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense in the market today. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly executive management and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. Failure to manage our planned growth could harm our business Our ability to successfully market and sell our wound care products and implement our business plan requires an effective plan for managing our future growth. We plan to increase the scope of our operations at a rapid rate. Future expansion efforts will be expensive and may strain our internal operating resources. To manage future growth effectively, we must maintain and enhance our financial and accounting systems and controls, integrate new personnel and manage expanded operations. If we do not manage growth properly, it could harm our operating results and financial condition. A few of our existing shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock and have a significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval and may delay or prevent a change in control. Our officers and board members own or control a large percentage of our common stock (See “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters”). As a result, our management could have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors, and principal stockholders; e.g., our officers and principal stockholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Additionally, our Series B, Series C, and Series D Preferred Stock votes with the common stock on an as converted basis of 1,000 shares of common stock to 1 share of preferred stock. This means each preferred share exercises substantially greater voting power than each share of common stock. Our Articles and Bylaws may delay or prevent a potential takeover of the company Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and Bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a potential takeover of the Company, even if the takeover is in the best interest of our shareholders. The Bylaws limit when shareholders may call a special meeting of shareholders. The Articles also allow the Board of Directors to fill vacancies, including newly created directorships. Volatility of our stock price Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history, and we expect to experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results. These fluctuations have been and may in the future be caused by numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and that you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. Also, it is likely that our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 10 In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many small companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Liquidity of our Common Stock Although there is a public market for our common stock, trading volume has been historically low, which could impact the stock price and the ability to sell shares of our common stock. We can give no assurance that an active and liquid public market for the shares of the common stock will continue in the future. In addition, future sales of large amounts of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. Substantially all of the outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable, without restriction or registration under the Securities Act, other than the sales volume restrictions of Rule 144 applicable to shares held beneficially by persons who may be deemed to be affiliates. The price of our common stock could also drop as a result of the exercise of options for common stock or the perception that such sales or exercise of options could occur. These factors could also have a negative impact on the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise funds through future stock offerings. No Dividend payments We have not paid and do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the current return you may receive on your investment in our common stock. Future dividends on our common stock, if any, will depend on our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. We currently intend to retain earnings, if any, to increase our net worth and reserves. Therefore, we do not anticipate that any holder of common stock will receive any cash, stock or other dividends on our shares of common stock at any time in the near future. You should not expect or rely on the potential payment of dividends as a source of current income. “Penny Stock” Limitations Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for purposes relevant to the Company, as any equity security that has a minimum bid price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to a limited number of exceptions which are likely not available to us. It is likely that our shares will be considered to be penny stocks for the immediate foreseeable future. This classification severely and adversely affects any market liquidity for our common stock. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the penny stock rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person and make a special written determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and that that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market that, in highlight form, sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination, and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about (a) the risks of investing in penny stock in both public offerings and in secondary trading; (b) commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative; (c) current quotations for the securities; and (d) the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may not wish to engage in the above-referenced required paperwork and disclosures. In addition, they may encounter difficulties when attempting to sell shares of our common stock, which may affect the ability of selling shareholders or other holders to sell their shares in any secondary market. These additional sales practices and disclosure requirements may impede the sale of our securities and the liquidity for our securities may decrease, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our securities. Our shares, in all probability, will be considered subject to such penny stock rules for the foreseeable future, and our shareholders may, as a result, find it difficult to sell their securities. 11 Forward-Looking Statements When used in this Form 10-K or other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in the Company’s press releases or other public or shareholder communications, or in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized officer of the Company’s executive officers, the words or phrases “would be”, “will allow”, “intends to”, “will likely result”, “are expected to”, “will continue”, “is anticipated”, “estimate”, “project”, or similar expressions are intended to identify “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, and advises readers that forward-looking statements involve various risks and uncertainties. Our management believes its assumptions are based upon reasonable data derived from and known about our business and operations. No assurances are made that our actual results of operations or the results of our future activities will not differ materially from these assumptions. The Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims any obligation to update, any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide this information. 