ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. - 14 - Risks Related to Our Business Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy depends upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and other key personnel and we cannot assure that we will be able to hire or retain such employees. We must attract recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and other key personnel. These individuals are difficult to find in China. We cannot assure that we will be able to find, hire or retain such employees. Certain of our officers and directors have existing responsibilities to other businesses in addition to our company and as a result, conflicts of interest between us and the other activities of those persons may occur from time to time. Certain persons serving as our officers and directors have existing responsibilities and, in the future, may have additional responsibilities, to provide management and services to other entities in addition to us. In particular, Mr. Xiao Ping Zhang, our Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Xiao Feng Zhang, our Chief Operating Officer, are officers and principal shareholders of Ruili Group Co. Ltd. which is engaged in the development, production and sale of various kinds of automotive parts. The Ruili Group also provides certain services to the Company in the form of bank guaranties, licensing of technology and sells certain non-valve products to the Company to fill out the Company’s product lines. As a result, conflicts of interest between us and the other activities of those persons may occur from time to time. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Our officers and directors are accountable to us and our shareholders as fiduciaries, which requires that such officers and directors exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. However, the existing responsibilities limit the amount of time such officers and directors can spend on our affairs. We are and will continue to be under downward pricing pressures on our products from our customers and competitors. We face downward pricing pressures from our customers and competitors, especially in the sales of replacement parts. To retain our existing customers and gain new ones, we must continue to keep our unit prices low. In view of our need to maintain low prices on our products, our growth, profit margins and net income will suffer if we cannot effectively continue to control our manufacturing and other costs. Our contracts with our customers are generally short-term and do not require the purchase of a minimum amount. Our customers generally do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments. Although we enter into manufacturing contracts with certain of our customers who have continuing demand for a certain product, these contracts state terms such as payment method, payment period, quality standard and inspection and similar matters rather than provide firm, long-term commitments to purchase products from us. As a result of the absence of the long term contracts, we could have periods during which we have no or only limited orders for our products, but will continue to have to pay the costs to maintain our work force and our manufacturing facilities and to service our indebtedness without the benefit of current revenues. - 15 - We consistently face short lead times for delivery of products to customers. Failure to meet delivery deadlines in our production agreements could result in the loss of customers and damage to our reputation and goodwill. We enter into production agreements with our customers prior to commencing production, which reduces our risk of cancellations. However, these production agreements typically contain short lead times for delivery of products, leading to production schedules that can strain our resources and reduce our profit margins on the products produced. Although we have increased our manufacturing capacity, we may lack sufficient capacity at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands if they exceed the production capacity of levels. We strive for rapid response to customer demand, which can lead to reduced purchasing efficiency and increased material costs. If we are unable to sufficiently meet our customers’ demands, we may lose our customers. Moreover, failure to meet customer demands may damage our reputation and goodwill. Because of the short lead times in our production agreements, we may not be able to accurately or effectively plan our production or supply needs. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, facility requirements, personnel needs, and other resource requirements, based on our production agreements with our customers. Short lead times of our customers’ commitments to their own customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to estimate accurately the future requirements of those customers for our products. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross margins and operating results. We may also occasionally acquire raw materials without having customer orders based on a customer’s forecast or in anticipation of an order and to secure more favorable pricing, delivery or credit terms in view of the short lead times we often have under our customers’ orders. These purchases can expose us to losses from inventory carrying costs or inventory obsolescence. Our operations depend highly on Messrs. Xiao Ping Zhang, our Chief Executive Officer and Xiao Feng Zhang, our Chief Operating Officer and a small number of other executives. The success of our operations depends greatly on a small number of key managers, including Messrs. Xiao Ping Zhang and Xiao Feng Zhang. The loss of the services of either Mr. Zhang, or any of the other senior executives could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Although we believe we would be able to find other managers to replace any of these managers, the search for such managers and the integration of such managers into our business will inevitably occur only over an extended period of time. During that time the lack of senior leadership could affect adversely our sales and manufacturing, as well as our research and development efforts. We may not be able to effectively respond to rapid growth in demand for our products and of our manufacturing operations. If we continue to be successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. Meeting such increased demands will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to purchases of raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which we produce products. Such demands would require more capital and working capital than we currently have available. We extend relatively long payment terms for accounts receivable. As is customary in China, we extend relatively long payment terms to certain of our China based customers. As a result of the size of many of our orders, these extended terms adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations out of our operating cash flow. In addition, although we attempt to establish appropriate reserves for our receivables, those reserves may not prove to be adequate in view of actual levels of bad debts. The failure of our customers to pay us timely would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow. - 16 - Our customers often place large orders for products, requiring fast delivery, which impacts our working capital. If our customers do not incorporate our products into their products and sell them in a timely fashion, for example, due to excess inventories, sales slowdowns or other issues, they may not pay us in a timely fashion, even on our extended terms. This failure to pay timely may defer or delay further product orders from us, which may adversely affect our cash flows, sales or income in subsequent periods. We may not be able to finance the development of new products. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new products that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with the products of our competitors. Some of our competitors have design and manufacturing capabilities and technologies that compete well with our products, particularly in markets outside of China. We are currently conducting research and development on a number of new products, activities requiring a substantial outlay of capital. To remain competitive, we must continue to incur significant costs in product development, equipment, facilities and invest in research and development of new products. These costs may increase, resulting in greater fixed costs and operating expenses. All of these factors create pressures on our working capital and ability to fund our current and future manufacturing activities and the expansion of our business. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers. Although no customer individually accounted for more than 6% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 16% and 32% of our revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer stops purchasing our products. Our business depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property effectively. The success of our business depends in substantial measure on the legal protection of proprietary rights in technology we hold. We hold only one patent in China and have a license in two other patents. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements. If these contractual measures fail to protect our proprietary rights, any advantage those proprietary rights provided to us would be negated. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property and know-how, particularly in China and other countries in which the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Accordingly, other parties, including competitors, may duplicate our products using our proprietary technologies. Pursuing legal remedies against persons infringing our patents or otherwise improperly using our proprietary information is a costly and time consuming process that would divert management’s attention and other resources from the conduct of our other business, could cause delays and other problems with the marketing and sales of our products, as well as delays in deliveries. Risks Related to Doing Business in China We operate from facilities that are located in China. Accordingly, our operations must conform to the governmental regulations and rules of China. - 17 - The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing commercial matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. The practical effect of the PRC’s legal system on our business operations in China can be viewed from two separate but intertwined considerations. First, as a matter of substantive law, the Foreign Invested Enterprise laws provide significant protection from government interference. In addition, these laws guarantee the full enjoyment of the benefits of corporate articles and contracts to Foreign Invested Enterprise participants. These laws, however, do impose standards concerning corporate formation and governance, which are not qualitatively different from the corporation laws found in the United States. Second, while the enforcement of substantive rights may appear less clear than enforcement procedures in the United States, Foreign Invested Enterprises and Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprises are Chinese registered companies that enjoy the same status as other Chinese registered companies in business-to-business dispute resolution. The Chinese legal infrastructure is significantly different in operation from its United States counterpart, and may present a significant impediment to the operation of Foreign Invested Enterprises. Our principal operating subsidiary, Ruili Group Ruian Auto Parts Co., Ltd., is a sino-foreign joint venture organized under the laws of the PRC and is governed by its articles of association. These uncertainties could impact our ability to enforce our rights or to defend ourselves against the claims of third parties. PRC accounting laws mandate accounting practices which may not be consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and therefore our financials and their interpretation involve uncertainties. PRC accounting laws mandate accounting practices which may not be consistent with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The China accounting laws require that an annual “statutory audit” be performed in accordance with PRC accounting standards and that the books of account of Foreign Invested Enterprises be maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. The translation of the financial statement from the requirements of the PRC to US GAAP, requires interpretation and the exercise of judgment. PRC economic reform policies or nationalization could result in a total investment loss in our common stock. Since 1979, the Chinese government has reformed its economic systems. Because many reforms are unprecedented or experimental, they are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may negatively affect our operations. Although the Chinese government owns the majority of the productive assets in China, including mines and quarrying sites, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, there are no assurances that: • We will be able to capitalize on economic reforms; • The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; • The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; • Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; and • Business operations in China will not become subject to nationalization. - 18 - Over the last few years, China’s economy has registered a high growth rate. Recently, there have been indications that rates of inflation have increased. In response, the Chinese government recently has taken measures to curb this excessively expansive economy. These measures have included restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, reducing the purchasing capability of certain of its customers, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for purchases of some foreign products. These austere measures alone may not succeed in slowing down the economy’s excessive expansion or control inflation, and may result in severe dislocations in the Chinese economy. The Chinese government may adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of freezes or restraints on certain projects or markets. These measures may adversely affect our operations. There can be no assurance that the reforms to China’s economic system will continue or that we will not be adversely affected by changes in China’s political, economic, and social conditions and by changes in policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws and regulations, measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittance abroad, and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions. A material change in reforms on economic policy could cause instability or other harmful effects. Because our principal operating company is incorporated under the laws of China, and substantially all of our assets are located in China. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on U.S. or other foreign law against our management and us. Ruili Group Ruian Auto Parts Co., Ltd., our operating company, is incorporated under the laws of China, and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, substantially all of our directors, managers, and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon certain directors, supervisors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan or many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in the United States and any of the other jurisdictions mentioned above in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in China against us, our directors, managers, or executive officers only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by Chinese law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a Chinese court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. Because we receive a substantial portion of our revenue in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency, and the government controls the currency conversion and the fluctuation of the Renminbi, we are subject to changes in China’s’ political and economic decisions. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. The Chinese government may, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Recently, China has introduced a price-finding mechanism in the interbank foreign exchange market. The Renminbi exchange rate is no longer pegged to the single US dollar, but rather, a number of principal currencies are chosen and given appropriate weight to form a package of currencies. - 19 - The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on Renminbi-US dollar prices quoted by market makers in each morning before the interbank foreign exchange market opens, and the current exchange rates of the basket of currencies against the US dollar on the world financial markets. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. Dollars generally has been stable. Any appreciation of the Renminbi may adversely affect our gross margin and net income, since nearly all of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi, while any exchange gains as a result of appreciation of Renminbi-denominated assets are not recognized in our income statement. Any devaluation of the Renminbi, however, may materially and adversely affect the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms, since we will receive substantially all of our revenues, and express our profits, in Renminbi. Our financial condition and results of operations also may be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than the Renminbi. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in China, and changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. Any occurrence of serious infectious diseases, such as recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) causing widespread public health problems, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or other widespread public health problems in China, where a substantial portion of our revenue is derived, and in Ruian City, where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of public health-related factors, including the following: • quarantines or closures of our factories or subsidiaries which would severely disrupt its operations; • the sickness or death of the key officers and employees; and • general slowdown in the Chinese economy resulting from an outbreak. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could result in reduction in net sales of our products. Because it is likely that China will adopt additional environmental regulations and additional or modified regulations relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products or restricting disposal of any waste will increase our operating costs. National, provincial and local laws impose various environmental controls on the manufacture of automotive parts and/or of certain materials used in the manufacture of automotive parts. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. In addition, China is experiencing substantial problems with environmental pollution. Accordingly, it is likely that the national, provincial and local governmental agencies will adopt stricter pollution controls. Any such regulation relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products or restricting disposal of any waste will increase our operating costs. - 20 - Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile which could result in a complete loss of your investment. The market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, • announcements of new products by us or our competitors, • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, • conditions in the automotive market, • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies involved in the production of automotive parts, • announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, • additions or departures of key personnel, or • potential litigation. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in us. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in us. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders and as a result, these stockholders are able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders. Mr. Xiao Ping Zhang, our Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and his brother, Xiao Feng Zhang, our Chief Operating Officer, hold approximately 68% and 8.5%, respectively of the Company’s common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to control the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and other corporate transactions including business combinations. The occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. The occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. This will have an adverse affect on the business by restricting access to working capital to fund growth and operations. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. - 21 - We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors which could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on behalf of us. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley act could cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, require additional personnel and require hundreds of man hours of effort, and there can be no assurance that we will have the personnel, financial resources or expertise to comply with these regulations. The US Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002, better known as Sarbanes-Oxley, is the most sweeping legislation to affect publicly traded companies in 70 years. Sarbanes-Oxley created a set of complex and burdensome regulations. Compliance with such regulations requires hundreds of thousands of dollars, additional personnel and hundreds of man hours of effort. There can be no assurance that we will have the personnel, financial resources or expertise to comply with these regulations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 