Item 1A. Risk Factors. While we a have a history of profitability and operate in mature industries with capital that exceeds the requirements of bank regulatory agencies, an investment in our common stock (like an investment in the equity securities of any business enterprise) is subject to investment risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the principal risks and uncertainties to which we and our assets and businesses are subject; other risks are briefly identified in our cautionary statement that is included “Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks” in Part I, Item 1, “Business.” Although we seek ways to manage these risks and uncertainties and to develop programs to control those that we can, we ultimately cannot predict the future. Future results may differ materially from past results, and from our expectations and plans. If our actual loan losses exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition will be impacted. A significant source of risk for any bank or other enterprise that lends money arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail (because of financial difficulties or other reasons) to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. In our case, we originate many loans that are secured, but some loans are unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of real and personal property that may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination, natural disasters, and other external events. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses and regular review of appraisals and borrower financial statements, that we believe are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance and the value of available collateral, monitoring loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding our asset quality, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”) 6 We could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investments, and the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the level of non-performing assets. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for our products and services. We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than its interest-earning assets. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, (“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”) Our success is tied to the economic vitality of our Southern Indiana markets. We conduct business from offices that are exclusively located in ten contiguous counties of Southern Indiana, from which substantially our entire customer base is drawn. Because of the geographic concentration of our operations and customer base, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. Deterioration in economic conditions in this area could adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also Part I, Item 1, “Business — Competition.” We face substantial competition. The banking and financial services business in our markets is highly competitive. We compete with much larger regional, national, and international competitors. In addition, new banks could be organized in our market area which might bid aggressively for new business to capture market share in these markets. Developments increasing the nature or level of our competition, or decreasing the effectiveness by which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also “Competition,” and “Regulation and Supervision.” Our business expansion and capital management strategies may be less successful than planned. We from time to time consider opportunities to expand our business including strategies for launching new internal business initiatives and buying or investing in other businesses or business assets. Our earnings and financial condition could be adversely affected to the extent that the acquisitions or other business initiatives and strategies are not successful (or take longer than expected to achieve expected results) and such initiative or strategies could even result in losses. We also from time to time engage in activities (such as repurchasing and issuing our capital stock or other securities, and utilizing the borrowing capacity of our parent company to borrow funds from third party lenders on short and long term bases) in order to manage our capital structure and to finance acquisitions in a manner that we believe is most advantageous. These capital management activities and financing activities, however, also carry risks in the event that our business does not develop as expected or there are changes in the market for our common stock or in the capital and financial markets generally. We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. The banking industry in which we operate is subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation, none of which is in our control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws (including changes in federal or state laws affecting corporate taxpayers generally or financial institutions specifically) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also Part I, Item 1, “Business -- Supervision and Regulation of Banking Activities." 7 The manner in which we report our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by accounting changes. Our financial condition and results of operations that are presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements, accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and selected financial data appearing elsewhere within this report, are, to a large degree, dependent upon our accounting policies. The selection of and application of these policies involve estimates, judgments and uncertainties that are subject to change, and the effect of any change in estimates or judgments that might be caused by future developments or resolution of uncertainties could be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion of critical accounting policies and estimates that we have determined to be the most susceptible to change in the near term that is included in the section captioned “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) for a complete discussion. In addition, authorities that prescribe accounting principles and standards for public companies from time to time change those principles or standards or adopt formal or informal interpretations of existing principles or standards, which changes or interpretations (to the extent applicable to us) could result in changes that would be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 