Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Valley are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Valley. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently believes are immaterial may also impair Valley’s business operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. A Prolonged Negative Impact of Economic Downturn. The global and U.S. economic downturn has resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the possibility of a slow recovery or a fall back into recession. The Federal Reserve, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage- backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. A prolonged economic downturn or the return of negative developments in the financial services industry could negatively impact our operations by causing an increase in our provision for loan losses and a deterioration of our loan portfolio. Such a downturn may also adversely affect our ability to originate or sell loans. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact our financial performance. Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient. We maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience, and our assumptions regarding delinquency trends and future loss expectations. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Bank regulators review the classification of our loans in their examination of us and we may be required in the future to change the classification on certain of our loans, which may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. Valley’s management could also decide that the allowance for loan losses should be increased. If actual net charge-offs were to exceed Valley’s allowance, its earnings would be negatively impacted by additional provisions for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the OCC or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Further Increases in Our Non-performing Assets May Occur and Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. As a result of the economic downturn, particularly during 2009, we are facing increased delinquencies on our loans. Our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, other real estate owned and other repossessed assets) increased from 0.45 percent of loans and non-performing assets at December 31, 2008 to 1.04 percent of loans and non-performing assets at December 31, 2009. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur charge-offs to our allowance for loan losses and lost interest income relating to an increase in non-performing loans. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Adverse changes in the value of our non-performing assets, or the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in non-performing loans in the future, or that our non-performing assets will not result in lower financial returns in the future. 13 Table of Contents Changes in Interest Rates Can Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability. Valley’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond Valley’s control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Valley receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Valley’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Valley’s financial assets and liabilities, including the held to maturity, available for sale, and trading securities portfolios, and (iii) the average duration of Valley’s interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Valley’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. A Prolonged or Worsened Downturn Affecting the Economy and/or the Real Estate Market in Our Primary Market Area Would Adversely Affect Our Loan Portfolio and Our Growth Potential. Much of Valley’s lending is in northern and central New Jersey, and Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens, New York. As a result of this geographic concentration, a further significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in New Jersey and the New York City metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of Valley’s loan portfolio, results of operations and future growth potential. A prolonged decline in economic conditions in our market area could restrict borrowers’ ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows and results of operation of Valley’s business. Valley’s loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in Valley’s portfolio is located in New Jersey and the New York City metropolitan area. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for Valley’s loans are located strongly influence the level of Valley’s non-performing loans and results of operations. A continued decline in the New Jersey and New York City metropolitan area real estate markets could adversely affect Valley’s loan portfolio. Declines in Value May Adversely Impact the Investment Portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion in held to maturity and available for sale investment securities, respectively. We may be required to record impairment charges in earnings related to credit losses on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Additionally, (a) if we intend to sell a security or (b) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis, we will be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge in the statement of income equal to the full amount of the decline in fair value below amortized cost. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio and may result in other-than-temporary impairment on our investment securities in future periods. 14 Table of Contents Among other securities, our investment portfolio includes private label mortgage-backed securities, trust preferred securities principally issued by bank holding companies (“bank issuers”) (including three pooled securities), perpetual preferred securities issued by banks, and bank issued corporate bonds. These investments pose a risk of future impairment charges by us as a result of the current downturn in the U.S. economy and its negative effect on the performance of these bank issuers and/or the underlying mortgage loan collateral. In addition, some of the bank issuers of trust preferred securities within our investment portfolio are participants in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program. For TARP participants, dividend payments to trust preferred security holders are currently senior to and payable before dividends can be paid on the preferred stock issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Some bank trust preferred issuers may elect to defer future payments of interest on such securities either based upon recommendations by banking regulators or management decisions driven by potential liquidity needs. Such elections by issuers of securities within our investment portfolio could adversely affect securities valuations and result in future impairment charges if collection of deferred and accrued interest (or principal upon maturity) is deemed unlikely by management. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in the Bank not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Currently, we own $55.0 million in trust preferred securities (with unrealized losses totaling $33.6 million at December 31, 2009) of one issuer who has elected to defer interest payments based upon the conditions of an agreement with its bank regulator. At this time, we are uncertain whether in future periods we will be required to take impairment charges with regard to these securities. An Increased Valuation of Our Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to VNB Capital Trust I May Adversely Impact Our Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Effective January 1, 2007, we elected to carry the junior subordinated debentures issued to VNB Capital Trust I at fair value. We measure the fair value of these junior subordinated debentures using exchange quoted prices in active markets for similar assets (Level 1 inputs as defined in the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (the “FASB”) Accounting Standard Update No. 2009-05 under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 820, which we elected to early adopt on September 30, 2009), specifically the trust preferred securities issued by VNB Capital Trust I, which contain identical terms as our junior subordinated debentures (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). As a result, any increase in the market quoted price, or fair market value, of our trust preferred securities will result in a commensurate increase in the liability required to be recorded for the junior subordinated debentures with an offsetting non-cash charge against our earnings. During 2009, we recognized a $15.8 million ($10.3 million after taxes) non-cash charge due to the change in the fair value of the junior subordinated debentures caused by an increase in the market price of the trust preferred securities. The non-cash charge against our earnings does not impact our liquidity or our regulatory capital. We cannot predict whether or to what extent we would be required to take a non-cash charge against earnings related to the change in fair value of our junior subordinated debentures in future periods. Furthermore, changes in the law and regulations or other factors could require us to redeem the junior subordinated debentures at par value. If we are carrying the junior subordinated debentures at a fair value below par value when such redemption occurs, we will be required to record a charge against earnings in the period in which the redemption occurred. Higher FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums and Assessments Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 and we may have to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future and prepay insurance premiums. Market developments during 2009 significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule during the first quarter of 2009, which raised regular 15 Table of Contents deposit insurance premiums. In May 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, collected by the FDIC on September 30, 2009. The amount of this special assessment for the Bank was $6.5 million. In December 2009 the FDIC required us to prepay our assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, together with their quarterly risk-based assessment for the third quarter 2009. Notwithstanding this prepayment, the FDIC may impose additional special assessments for future quarters or may increase the FDIC standard assessments. We cannot provide you with any assurances that we will not be required to pay additional FDIC insurance assessments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We May be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the potential that Valley will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a prolonged economic downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not necessarily specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Our Deposit Base May Be Adversely Affected by the Loss of Lower-Cost Funding Sources. Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or money market or fixed income mutual funds, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, Valley could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing Valley’s net interest income and net income. 16 Table of Contents We Are a Holding Company and Depend on Our Subsidiaries for Dividends, Distributions and Other Payments. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and non-banking subsidiaries and depend on dividends, distributions, and other payments from the Bank and its non-banking subsidiaries to fund cash dividend payments on our common stock and to fund most payments on our other obligations. Regulations relating to capital requirements affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Additionally, if our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders or interest payments on our junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We May Reduce or Eliminate the Cash Dividend on Our Common Stock. Our common cash dividend pay-out per common share was greater than our earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2009, thereby causing our earnings retention to be zero for the same period. Our zero retention rate resulted from earnings being negatively impacted by dividends on our senior preferred stock and the accretion of the discount on our senior preferred stock (fully repurchased during 2009), as well as net trading losses caused primarily by to mark-to-market losses on the fair value of our junior subordinated debentures and net impairment losses on private label mortgage-backed securities. The retention ratio for the comparable year ended December 31, 2008 was also negative primarily due to other-than-temporary charges and realized losses on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred securities classified as available for sale. While our earnings retention rate may improve in the future due to the elimination of dividends and accretion due to our redemption of the senior preferred stock, other factors, including those resulting from the economic recession, may negatively impact our future earnings and ability to maintain our dividend at current levels. At this time, and subsequent to our first quarter of 2010 cash dividend payment, we have approximately $100 million in liquid assets, consisting of cash, investments and accrued interest receivable, at the holding company level available to pay dividends, which could provide for quarterly dividends up to three consecutive quarters at the current dividend rate per share based upon the number of our common shares outstanding at February 23, 2010 and projected operating expenses for 2010. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such cash dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock cash dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on federal regulatory considerations including the guidelines of OCC and the FRB regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Competition in the Financial Services Industry. Valley faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than Valley. Valley competes with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, title agencies, asset managers, insurance companies and a large list of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Mergers between financial institutions within New Jersey and in neighboring states have added competitive pressure. If Valley is unable to compete effectively, it will lose market share and its income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products will decline. 17 Table of Contents Future Offerings of Common Stock, Debt or Other Securities May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Stock. In the future, we may increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the prevailing regulatory required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock, preferred stock, trust preferred securities and debt securities. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt Valley’s Business and Dilute Shareholder Value. Valley regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities, including FDIC assisted transactions, and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Valley’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. Implementation of Growth Strategies. Valley has a strategic branch expansion initiative to expand its physical presence in Brooklyn and Queens, as well as add locations within its New Jersey and Manhattan markets. We may also expand our branch network into markets outside of these areas based upon changes in management strategy and/or bank acquisition opportunities that may become available in the future. Valley has opened a combined total of 12 branch locations within Brooklyn and Queens since starting its initiative in these new markets during 2007. Valley’s ability to successfully execute in these markets depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities and locations, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in the new market areas, and the ability to manage growth. These initiatives could cause Valley’s expenses to increase faster than revenues. Valley can provide no assurances that it will successfully implement or continue these initiatives. There are considerable initial and on-going costs involved in opening branches, growing loans in new markets, and attracting new deposit relationships. These expenses could negatively impact future earnings. For example, it takes time for new branches and relationships to achieve profitability. Expenses could be further increased if there are delays in the opening of new branches or if attraction strategies are more costly than expected. Delays in opening new branches can be caused by a number of factors such as the inability to find suitable locations, zoning and construction delays, and the inability to attract qualified personnel to staff the new branch. In addition, there is no assurance that a new branch will be successful even after it has been established. From time to time, Valley may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Valley may invest significant time and resources to develop and market new lines of business and/or products and services. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting customer preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of 18 Table of Contents business or a new product or service. Additionally, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of Valley’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Extensive Regulation and Supervision. Valley, primarily through its principal subsidiary and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Such laws are not designed to protect Valley shareholders. These regulations affect Valley’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Valley is also subject to a number of federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Valley in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Valley to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Valley’s compliance with certain of these laws will be considered by banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions. Market Reform Efforts May Result in Our Businesses Becoming Subject to Extensive and Pervasive Additional Regulations. Recent economic and market conditions have led to numerous proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial industry in an effort to prevent future crises and reform the financial regulatory system. President Obama’s administration has released a comprehensive plan for regulatory reform in the financial industry. The Administration’s plan contains significant proposed structural reforms, including heightened powers for the Federal Reserve to regulate risk across the financial system; a new Financial Services Oversight Council chaired by the U.S. Treasury; and two new federal agencies, a Consumer Financial Protection Agency and a new National Bank Supervisor. The plan also calls for new substantive regulation across the financial industry, including more heightened scrutiny and regulation for any financial firm whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could pose a threat to financial stability if it failed. There can be no assurance as to whether or when any of the parts of the Administration’s plan or other proposals will be enacted into legislation, and if adopted, what the final provisions of such legislation will be. The financial services industry is highly regulated, and we are subject to regulation by several government agencies, including the OCC, the FRB and the FDIC. Legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes in governmental economic and monetary policy, not only can affect our ability to attract deposits and make loans, but can also affect the demand for business and personal lending and for real estate mortgages. Government regulations affect virtually all areas of our operations, including our range of permissible activities, products and services, the amount of service fees or the ability to assess such fees, the geographic locations in which our services can be offered, the amount of capital required to be maintained to support operations, the right to pay dividends and the amount which we can pay to obtain deposits. New legislation and regulatory changes could require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Changes in Accounting Policies or Accounting Standards. Valley’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of Valley’s assets or liabilities and financial results. Valley identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security valuations, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. From time to time the FASB and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of Valley’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and Valley’s outside auditors, may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Such changes are expected to continue, and may accelerate as the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board have reaffirmed their commitment to achieving convergence between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current interpretations are beyond Valley’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how Valley reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, Valley could be required to apply a new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently (also retroactively) which may result in Valley restating prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations. The Price of Our Common Stock May Fluctuate. The price of our common stock on the NYSE constantly changes and recently, given the uncertainty in the financial markets, has fluctuated widely. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. Holders of our common stock will be subject to the risk of volatility and changes in prices. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • events negatively impacting the financial services industry which result in a general decline in the market valuation of our common stock; • announcements of material developments affecting our operations or our dividend policy; • future sales of our equity securities; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and • general domestic economic and market conditions. In addition, recently the stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Encountering Continuous Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Valley’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Valley’s operations. Many of Valley’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Valley may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Valley’s business and, in turn, Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. Operational Risk. We face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as us) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We maintain a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure or internal controls, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition, (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services and (iv) changes in the vendor’s strategic focus. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, we face increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees. Severe Weather, Acts of Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact Our Business. A significant portion of our primary markets are located near coastal waters which could generate naturally occurring severe weather, or in response to climate change, that could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Additionally, New York City and New Jersey remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism against the United States. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We Are Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review prior to originating certain commercial real estate loans, as well as before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility. From time to time as part of Valley’s normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against Valley based on actions or inactions of Valley. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Valley, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Valley and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for Valley’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 