Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in Valley’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to Valley’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Valley are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Valley. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently believes are immaterial may also impair Valley’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, Valley’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in Interest Rates Can Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability Valley’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond Valley’s control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Valley receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Valley’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Valley’s financial assets and liabilities, including the held to maturity, available for sale, and trading securities portfolios, and (iii) the average duration of Valley’s interest earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest earning asset and interest bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Valley’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. See “Net Interest Income” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity” sections in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to Valley’s management of interest rate risk. Competition in the Financial Services Industry Valley faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than Valley. Valley competes with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, title agencies, asset managers, insurance companies and a growing list of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Mergers between financial institutions within New Jersey and in neighboring states have added competitive pressure. If Valley is unable to compete effectively, it will lose market share and income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products will decline. 10 Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the potential that Valley will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments, sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Valley’s liquidity can be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, market disruption, operational problems affecting third parties or Valley, unfavorable pricing, competition, Valley’s credit rating and regulatory restrictions. Loss of Lower Cost Funding Sources Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, Valley could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing Valley’s net interest income and net income. Changes in Primary Market Areas Could Adversely Impact Results of Operations and Financial Condition Much of Valley’s lending is in northern and central New Jersey and New York City. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad based deterioration in economic conditions in New Jersey and the New York City metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of Valley’s loan portfolio, and accordingly, Valley’s results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could restrict borrowers’ ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of Valley’s business. Valley’s loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in Valley’s portfolio is located in New Jersey and New York City. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for Valley’s loans are located strongly influence the level of Valley’s non-performing loans and results of operations. A decline in the New Jersey and New York City metropolitan area real estate markets, as well as the other external factors, could adversely affect Valley’s loan portfolio. Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient Valley maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience and delinquency trends. However, Valley cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and Valley cannot provide assurance that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. If net charge-offs exceed Valley’s allowance, its earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies review Valley’s allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Valley management could also decide that the allowance for loan losses should be increased. An increase in Valley’s allowance for loan losses could reduce its earnings. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt Valley’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value Valley regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or 11 acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Valley’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. Valley seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management and possess either a market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • potential disruption to Valley’s business; • potential diversion of Valley’s management’s time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Implementation of Growth Strategies Valley has a strategic branch expansion initiative to expand its physical presence in New York City, including entry into new market areas located in Kings and Queens counties, New York, and fill in its markets within New Jersey. Additionally in 2007, Valley expanded the geographic presence of its auto loan dealer network into Connecticut, which network already includes Pennsylvania, Florida, New York, and New Jersey. Valley can provide no assurances that it will successfully implement these initiatives. Valley’s ability to successfully execute these initiatives depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities and locations, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in Valley’s new market areas, and the ability to manage growth. These initiatives could cause Valley’s expenses to increase faster than revenues. There are considerable initial and on-going costs involved in opening branches, growing loans in new markets, and attracting new deposit relationships. These expenses could negatively impact future earnings. For example, it takes time for new branches and relationships to achieve profitability. Expenses could be further increased if there are delays in the opening of new branches or if attraction strategies are more costly than expected. Delays in opening new branches can be caused by a number of factors such as the inability to find suitable locations, zoning and construction delays, and success in attracting qualified personnel to staff the new branch. In addition, there is no assurance that a new branch will be successful even after it has been established. From time to time, Valley may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Valley may invest significant time and resources to develop and market new lines of business and/or products and services. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services many not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting customer preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Additionally, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of Valley’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Changes in Accounting Policies or Accounting Standards Valley’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of Valley’s assets or liabilities and financial results. Valley identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. For a description of Valley’s critical accounting policies, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” at Item 7 of this Report. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the form and content of Valley’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and Valley’s outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond Valley’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how Valley reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, Valley could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently (also retroactively) which may result in Valley restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Extensive Regulation and Supervision Valley, primarily through its principal subsidiary, VNB, and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Such laws are not designed to protect Valley shareholders. These regulations affect Valley’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Valley is also subject to a number of federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Valley in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Valley to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Valley’s compliance with certain of these laws will be considered by banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions. While Valley has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the “Supervision and Regulation” section in Item 1, “Business” and Note 16 to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, which are located elsewhere in this report. Encountering Continuous Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Valley’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Valley’s operations. Many of Valley’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Valley may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Valley’s business and, in turn, Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. 13 Operational Risk Valley faces the risk that the design of its controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates Valley’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of Valley’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Valley may also be subject to disruptions of its systems, arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Valley is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is Valley) and to the risk that Valley’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Valley’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, Valley faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. Valley’s business operations could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time as part of Valley’s normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against Valley based on actions or inactions of Valley employees (see “Item 3” that follows below for further information). If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Valley, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Valley and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for Valley’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 