Item 1A. Risk Factors. While we have a history of profitability and operate with capital that exceeds the requirements of bank regulatory agencies, the financial services industry in which we operate has been adversely affected by the current economic emergency conditions. Further, an investment in our common stock (like an investment in the equity securities of any business enterprise) is subject to other investment risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the principal risks and uncertainties to which our industry in general, and we and our assets and businesses specifically, are subject; other risks are briefly identified in our cautionary statement that is included under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks” in Part I, Item 1, “Business.” Although we seek ways to manage these risks and uncertainties and to develop programs to control those that we can, we ultimately cannot predict the future. Future results may differ materially from past results, and from our expectations and plans. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry Including Recent Market, Legislative and Regulatory Events Difficult national market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Declines in the housing market over the past few years, falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of loans that were related to real estate and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have on a national basis generally led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. These conditions can place downward pressure on the credit worthiness of bank customers and their inclinations to borrow. A continued or worsening disruption and volatility could negatively impact customers' ability to seek new loans or to repay existing loans. The personal wealth of many borrowers and guarantors could be negatively impacted by the recent severe market declines. To date, the impact of these adverse conditions in the primary market areas of Southern Indiana that we serve has generally not been as severe as in other areas of Indiana and the United States. If current levels of market disruption and volatility worsen in our primary service areas, however, we could experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that these programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of these programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or access to credit. We may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than those published for 2009 because market developments have impacted the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. See Part I, Item 1, “Business — Federal Deposit Insurance Assessments," for more information. We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. The banking industry in which we operate is subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation, none of which is in our control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws (including changes in federal or state laws affecting corporate taxpayers generally or financial institutions specifically) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 8 Additional Risks Related to Our Operations and Business and Financial Strategies If our actual loan losses exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition will be impacted. A significant source of risk for any bank or other enterprise that lends money arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail (because of financial difficulties or other reasons) to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. In our case, we originate many loans that are secured, but some loans are unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of real and personal property that may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans, due to adverse changes in collateral values caused by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate and other external events. We could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our success is tied to the economic vitality of our Southern Indiana markets. We conduct business from offices that are exclusively located in ten contiguous counties of Southern Indiana, from which substantially all of our customer base is drawn. Because of the geographic concentration of our operations and customer base, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. To date, the impact of the nation's adverse economic conditions in the primary market areas of Southern Indiana that we serve has generally not been as severe as in other areas of Indiana and the United States. If current levels of market disruption and volatility worsen in our primary service areas, however, the quality of our loan portfolio, and the demand for our products and services, could be adversely affected, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We face substantial competition. The banking and financial services business in our markets is highly competitive. We compete with much larger regional, national, and international competitors, including competitors that have no (or only a limited number of) offices physically located within our markets. In addition, new banks could be organized in our market area which might bid aggressively for new business to capture market share in these markets. Developments increasing the nature or level of our competition, or decreasing the effectiveness by which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also Part I, Item 1, of this report, “Business— Competition,” and “Business —Regulation and Supervision.” The manner in which we report our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by accounting changes. Our financial condition and results of operations that are presented in our consolidated financial statements, accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, and selected financial data appearing in this report, are, to a large degree, dependent upon our accounting policies. The selection of and application of these policies involve estimates, judgments and uncertainties that are subject to change, and the effect of any change in estimates or judgments that might be caused by future developments or resolution of uncertainties could be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations. In addition, authorities that prescribe accounting principles and standards for public companies from time to time change those principles or standards or adopt formal or informal interpretations of existing principles or standards. Such changes or interpretations (to the extent applicable to us) could result in changes that would be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and borrowings as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of our lenders or market conditions were to change. 9 The value of securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for investment securities has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of securities that we hold in our investment portfolio, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the financial services industry (including banking personnel, trust and investments personnel, and insurance personnel) is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in our local Southern Indiana markets. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified loan origination executives, sales executives for our trust and investment products and services, and sales executives for our insurance products and services. We also depend upon the continued contributions of our management personnel, and in particular upon the abilities of our senior executive management, and the loss of the services of one or more of them could harm our business. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. We face risks associated with acquisitions or mergers. We may pursue acquisition or merger opportunities in the future. Risks commonly encountered in merger and acquisitions include, among other things, difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of acquired companies and branches; potential disruption of our ongoing business; potential diversion of our management's time and attention; potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired or merged company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired or merged company; possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired or merged company; difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired or merged company; and environmental liability with acquired loans, and their collateral, or with any real estate. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with mergers or acquisitions. 10 We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties (including liabilities for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination), or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 