Item 1A. Risk Factors The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Valley are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Valley. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair Valley’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, Valley’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in Interest Rates Can Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability Valley’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Valley’s control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Valley receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Valley’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Valley’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of Valley’s assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, Valley’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Valley’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. See “Net Interest Income” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity” sections in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to Valley’s management of interest rate risk. Competition in the Financial Services Industry Valley faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Valley competes with other providers of financial services such as other bank holding companies, commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, title agencies, asset managers, insurance companies and a growing list of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Mergers between financial institutions within New Jersey and in neighboring states have added competitive pressure. If Valley is unable to compete effectively, it will lose market share and income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products will decline. 9 Table of Contents Changes in Primary Market Areas Could Adversely Impact Results of Operations and Financial Condition Much of Valley’s lending is in New Jersey and Manhattan. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad based deterioration in economic conditions in New Jersey and the New York City metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of Valley’s loan portfolio, and accordingly, Valley’s results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could restrict borrowers ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of Valley’s business. Valley’s loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in Valley’s portfolio is located in New Jersey and Manhattan. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for Valley’s loans are located strongly influence the level of Valley’s nonperforming loans and results of operations. A decline in the New Jersey and New York City metropolitan area real estate markets, as well as the other external factors, could adversely affect the performance of Valley’s loan portfolio. Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient Valley maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience and delinquency trends. However, Valley cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and Valley cannot assure you that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. If charge-offs exceed Valley’s allowance, its earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies review Valley’s allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. An increase in Valley’s allowance for loan losses could reduce its earnings. Acquisitions and Implementation of Growth Strategies In 2005, Valley acquired Shrewsbury State Bank (“Shrewsbury”) and NorCrown Bank (“NorCrown”), which added over $1 billion in assets and 27 branch offices. Although Valley expects both acquisitions to be accretive to earnings within one year, Valley cannot assure you that the acquisitions will achieve Valley’s targeted results of them. Factors that may adversely affect Valley’s targeted results include the ability to retain the customers of these entities, the ability to successfully integrate both entities and their personnel and the ability to achieve certain cost savings. Valley’s future success will depend on the ability of its officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve Valley’s operational, financial and management controls and processes and reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. Thus, Valley cannot assure you that its growth strategy will not place a strain on Valley’s administrative and operational infrastructure. Extensive Regulation and Supervision Valley, primarily through its principal subsidiary VNB and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect Valley’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Valley is also subject to a number of federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Valley in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Valley to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Valley’s compliance with certain of these laws will be considered by banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions. While Valley has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the “Supervision and Regulation” section in Item 1, “Business” and Note 16 to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, which are located elsewhere in this report. 10 Table of Contents Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to Valley’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Valley they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Valley and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Inability to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees Valley’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, Valley faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. Valley’s business could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 