Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes may affect Valley are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Valley. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently believes are immaterial may also impair Valley’s business operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Our financial results and condition may be adversely impacted by weak economic conditions, particularly if unemployment does not improve or increases. While the United States continues to experience modest economic growth and improvements in the level of unemployment, the rate of growth has been slow and the low level of the labor force participation rate (which has contributed to the modest decline in the unemployment rate) is not expected to significantly improve in the near future. Much of Valley’s lending is in northern and central New Jersey, and Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island, New York. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in New Jersey and the New York City metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of Valley’s loan portfolio, results of operations and future growth potential. Prolonged weakened economic conditions and unemployment in our market area could restrict borrowers’ ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows and results of operation of Valley’s business. Additionally, such weak conditions may also continue to adversely affect our ability to originate loans. Lawmakers’ failure to resolve the so called Debt Ceiling or U.S. budgetary crisis in a timely manner, further downgrades of the U.S. credit rating and uncertain credit and financial market conditions may affect the stability of our $1.7 billion in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government, which may affect the valuation or liquidity of our investment securities portfolio and may increase our future borrowing costs. As a result of the uncertain domestic political, credit and financial market conditions, including the potential consequences of the federal government defaulting on its obligations for a period of time due to an unresolved debt ceiling limitation or other unresolved political issues, investments in financial instruments issued or guaranteed by the federal government pose credit default and liquidity risks. Given that future deterioration in the United States credit and financial markets is a possibility, no assurance can be given that losses or significant deterioration in the fair value of our U.S. government issued or guaranteed investments will not occur. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $223.9 million, $53.1 million and $1.4 billion invested in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, and residential mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by Ginnie Mae and government-sponsored enterprises, respectively. During 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the United States credit rating from its AAA rating to AA+. Further downgrades in the future could also affect the stability of securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government. These factors could affect the valuation or liquidity of our portfolio of such investment securities, and could result in our counterparties requiring additional collateral for our borrowings. Further, unless and until the current United States political, credit and financial market conditions have been sufficiently resolved, it may increase our future borrowing costs. Changes in interest rates or prolonged low levels of interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Valley’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, 20 Table of Contents and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond Valley’s control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Valley receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Valley’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Valley’s financial assets and liabilities, including the held to maturity, available for sale, and trading securities portfolios, and (iii) the average duration of Valley’s interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Any substantial or unexpected change in market interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates, such as those experienced in 2013 and projected by the FRB to continue beyond 2014, could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. Due, in part, to the low level of market interest rates on loans and investments and a large portion of our long-term borrowing costs that are fixed at interest rates above current market rates of similar new borrowings, our net interest margin on a tax equivalent basis declined 32 basis points to 3.20 percent for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012. See additional information at the “Net Interest Income” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity” sections of our MD&A. We could recognize other-than-temporary impairment charges on investment securities due to adverse economic and market conditions. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.7 billion and $829.7 million in held to maturity and available for sale securities, respectively. We may be required to record impairment charges in earnings related to credit losses on these investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Additionally, (a) if we intend to sell a security or (b) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis, we will be required to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment charge in the statement of income equal to the full amount of the decline in fair value below amortized cost. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio and may result in other-than-temporary impairment on our investment securities in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios. Among other securities, our investment portfolio includes private label mortgage-backed securities, trust preferred securities principally issued by bank holding companies (including three pooled securities), perpetual preferred securities issued by banks, and bank issued corporate bonds. These investments pose a risk of future impairment charges by us as a result of the slow recovery in the U.S. economy and its negative effect on the performance of these issuers and/or the underlying mortgage loan collateral. Additionally, some bank trust preferred issuers may elect to defer future payments of interest on such securities either based upon requirements or recommendations by bank regulators or management decisions driven by potential liquidity needs. Such elections by issuers of securities within Valley’s investment portfolio could adversely affect securities valuations and result in future impairment charges if collection of deferred and accrued interest (or principal upon maturity) is deemed unlikely by management. We recognized no other-than-temporary impairment charges on securities attributable to credit in 2013 as compared to $5.2 million and $20.0 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The 2012 and 2011 charges were mainly due to impaired trust preferred and private label mortgage-backed securities. See the “Investment Securities” section of this MD&A and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional analysis and discussion of our other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities. 21 Table of Contents Future offerings of common stock, debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock and dilute the holdings of existing shareholders. In the future, we may increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below or near the current or new (final Basel III) regulatory required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could adversely affect our asset quality and profitability for those loans secured by real property and increase the number of defaults and the level of losses within our loan portfolio. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2013, over 73 percent of our total loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and could deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A downturn in the real estate market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. The declines in home prices in the New Jersey and New York metropolitan markets we serve, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in our loan portfolios. Unexpected decreases in home prices coupled with a prolonged economic recovery and elevated levels of unemployment could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings could be adversely affected. The secondary market for residential mortgage loans, for the most part, is limited to conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of this limited mortgage market and, potentially, the pool of qualified borrowers under the new QM Rule effective in January 2014, combined with another correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For additional risks related to our sales of residential mortgages in the secondary market, see the “We may incur future losses in connection with repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market” risk section below. Higher charge-offs and weak credit conditions could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a provision charge to earnings. We maintain an allowance for credit losses based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and conditions. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including the impact of national and regional economic conditions on the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. If our judgment proves to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, bank regulators review the 22 Table of Contents classification of our loans in their examination of us and we may be required in the future to change the classification on certain of our loans, which may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. If actual net charge-offs were to exceed Valley’s allowance, its earnings would be negatively impacted by additional provisions for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the OCC or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Loans acquired in our FDIC-assisted transactions may not be covered by the loss-sharing agreements if the FDIC determines that we have not adequately managed these agreements, which could require a reduction in the carrying value of these loans. In connection with the acquisitions of certain assets and liabilities of LibertyPointe Bank and The Park Avenue Bank, the Bank entered into loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC. Under the terms of the loss-sharing agreement with the FDIC in the LibertyPointe Bank transaction, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse us for: (i) 80 percent of any future losses on loans covered by the loss-sharing agreement up to $55.0 million, after we absorb such losses up to the first loss tranche of $11.7 million; and (ii) 95 percent of losses in excess of $55.0 million. Under the terms of the loss-sharing agreement with the FDIC in The Park Avenue Bank transaction, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse us for 80 percent of any future losses on covered assets of up to $66.0 million and 95 percent of losses in excess of $66.0 million. At December 31, 2013, our FDIC loss-share receivable totaled $32.8 million. Although the FDIC has agreed to reimburse us for the substantial portion of losses on covered loans, the FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for loan losses if the loss-sharing agreements are not managed in accordance with their terms. In addition, reimbursable losses are based on the book value of the relevant loans as determined by the FDIC as of the effective dates of the transactions. The amount that we realize on these loans could differ materially from the carrying value that will be reflected in our financial statements, based upon the timing and amount of collections on the covered loans in future periods. An increase in our non-performing assets may reduce our interest income and increase our net loan charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and operating expenses. As a result of the weak economic recovery, we continue to face elevated levels of delinquencies on our loans. Our non-accrual loans increased from 0.33 percent at December 31, 2008 to 1.20 percent and 0.82 percent of total loans at December 31, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Although the economy continued to gradually improve during 2013, a slowing or further downturn in economic or real estate market conditions could result in increased charge-offs to our allowance for loan losses and lost interest income relating to a higher level of non-performing loans. Non-performing assets (including non-accrual loans, other real estate owned, other repossessed assets, and non-accrual debt securities) totaled $124.9 million at December 31, 2013. These non-performing assets can adversely affect our net income mainly through decreased interest income and increased operating expenses incurred to maintain such assets or loss charges related to subsequent declines in the estimated fair value of foreclosed assets. Adverse changes in the value of our non-performing assets, or the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in non-performing loans in the future, or that our non-performing assets will not result in lower financial returns in the future. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may affect our business activities, financial position and profitability by increasing our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, placing restrictions on certain products and services, and limiting our future capital raising strategies. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law by the President of the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act requires significant changes in financial regulation that have impacted all financial institutions, including Valley and the Bank, and will continue to do so as new regulations are promulgated. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes, it created the CFPB 23 Table of Contents that is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer protection. The CFPB has exclusive authority to issue regulations, orders and guidance to administer and implement the objectives of certain federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB also has exclusive supervision over examinations of our compliance with those specific laws, and implementing rules and regulations, supplementing the compliance examinations that will be made by the Comptroller of the Currency. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes states’ attorneys general to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act also restricts the authority of the Comptroller of the Currency to preempt state consumer protection laws applicable to national banks, such as the Bank, impacts the preemption of state laws as they affect subsidiaries and agents of national banks, changes the scope of federal deposit insurance coverage, and increases the FDIC assessment payable by the Bank. The CFPB’s rulemaking, including the QM Rule for qualified mortgage borrowers (outlined under the “Supervision and Regulation” section of Item 1 to this Annual Report), and certain other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act, have significantly increased our regulatory compliance burden and costs and may continue to increase in the future through additional restrictions on the financial products and services we offer to our customers. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new issuances of trust preferred securities from counting as Tier 1 capital. These restrictions have placed greater limitations on our capital strategies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, our outstanding trust preferred securities will continue to count as Tier 1 capital (but will be 75 percent disallowed starting on January 1, 2015 and fully phased out of Tier 1capital on January 1, 2016 under the final Basel III guidance issued in July 2013). The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act also amended the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to, among other things, give the FRB the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers, such as Valley National Bank. In June 2011, the FRB issued a final rule that establishes standards for determining whether an interchange fee received or charged by an issuer with respect to an electronic debit transaction is reasonable and proportionate to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. Effective October 1, 2011, these new standards imposed debit card interchange fee limits which were largely responsible for a $880 thousand reduction in our debit card interchange fees recognized in other non-interest income for the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to the third quarter of 2011. Debit card interchange fees totaled $2.5 million, $2.4 million and $4.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We can make no assurances that these rules and any new limitations imposed upon us will not reduce such fee income in the future. On December 10, 2013, the FRB, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFTC and the SEC issued final rules to implement the Volcker Rule contained in section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, generally to become effective on July 21, 2015. The Volcker Rule prohibits an insured depository institution and its affiliates from: (i) engaging in “proprietary trading” and (ii) investing in or sponsoring certain types of funds (defined as “Covered Funds”) subject to certain limited exceptions. The rule also effectively prohibits short-term trading strategies by any U.S. banking entity if those strategies involve instruments other than those specifically permitted for trading and prohibits the use of some hedging strategies. We are currently analyzing the entire Volcker Rule to determine what effect, if any, it will have on our business and results of operations. We identified no investments held as of December 31, 2013 that meet the definition of Covered Funds. See additional information regarding our review the investment securities portfolio at Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Because many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions still require future regulatory rulemaking, we are uncertain as to the impact that some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will have on Valley and the Bank and cannot provide assurance that the Dodd-Frank Act will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations for other reasons. 24 Table of Contents Extensive regulation and supervision may have a negative impact on our ability to compete in a cost effective manner and subject us to material compliance costs and penalties. Valley, primarily through its principal subsidiary and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Many laws and regulations affect Valley’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. They encourage Valley to ensure a satisfactory level of lending in defined areas, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Valley in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Valley to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Valley’s compliance with certain of these laws will be considered by banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions. We may further reduce or eliminate the cash dividend on our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such cash dividends, as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we announced that we were reducing our quarterly cash dividend by $0.0525 per share. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may further reduce or eliminate our common stock cash dividend in the future depending upon our results of operations, financial condition or other metrics. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on federal regulatory policies and regulations including the supervisory policies and guidelines of the OCC and the FRB regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Among other things, consultation of the FRB supervisory staff is required in advance of our declaration or payment of a dividend that exceeds our earnings for a period in which the dividend is being paid. New regulatory guidelines will increase our minimum capital requirements in the future as outlined in the “Basel III” section of Item 1 above. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards could cause us to change the manner in which we report our financial results and condition in adverse ways and could subject us to additional costs and expenses. Valley’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of Valley’s assets or liabilities and financial results. Valley identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security valuations and impairments, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of Valley’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and Valley’s independent registered public accounting firm, may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Such changes are expected to continue, and may accelerate dependent upon the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board commitments to 25 Table of Contents achieving convergence between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current interpretations are beyond Valley’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how Valley reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, Valley could be required to apply a new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently (also retroactively) which may result in Valley restating prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations. Additional bank failures could increase our FDIC assessments and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The economic recession and the prolonged economic recovery in the U.S. since 2008 has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs dramatically since 2008 and negatively impacted our earnings (See the annual impact in Item 6. Selected Financial Data below). In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $6.5 million. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 in December 2009. We prepaid estimated assessment fees totaling $45.5 million in December 2009. The FDIC could impose additional special assessments for future quarters or increase the FDIC standard assessments. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, gave the FDIC greater discretion to manage the Deposit Insurance Fund and raised the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio to 1.35 percent with no upper limit. Due to these changes and the uncertain future economic and regulatory environment impacting insured banks, we cannot provide you with any assurances that we will not be required to pay additional FDIC insurance assessments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to recognize losses on certain financial transactions due to the credit default or liquidation of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately manage our liquidity risk, which could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities, or pay regular dividends on our common stock. Liquidity risk is the potential that Valley will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends on our common stock because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. 26 Table of Contents Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could have a detrimental impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to persistent weakness, or downturn, in the economy or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not necessarily specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. The loss of or decrease in lower-cost funding sources within our deposit base may adversely impact our net interest income and net income. Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or money market or fixed income mutual funds, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, Valley could lose a low cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing Valley’s net interest income and net income. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividends and distributions to us, we may be unable to make dividend payments to our common shareholders or interest payments on our junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and non-banking subsidiaries and depend on dividends, distributions, and other payments from the Bank and its non-banking subsidiaries to fund cash dividend payments on our common stock and to fund most payments on our other obligations. Regulations relating to capital requirements affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Additionally, if our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders or interest payments on our junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Our market share and income may be adversely affected by our inability to successfully compete against larger and more diverse financial service providers. Valley faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than Valley to deal with the potential negative changes in the financial markets and regulatory landscape. Valley competes with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, title agencies, asset managers, insurance companies and a large list of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Additional mergers and acquisitions of financial institutions within New Jersey and the New York Metro area may also occur given the current difficult banking environment and add more competitive pressure to Valley. If Valley is unable to compete effectively, it may lose market share and its income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products may decline. Our ability to make opportunistic acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that regulators will not provide the requisite approvals. We may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions, or related businesses from time to time that we expect may further our business strategy, including through participation in FDIC-assisted acquisitions or assumption of deposits from troubled institutions. Any possible 27 Table of Contents acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner or at all. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, these acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management’s attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers, and the potential loss of key employees. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions, or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions can be highly competitive, and we may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing or will even pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into operations. Ability to grow may be limited if we choose not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel, including, but not limited to, the executive officers disclosed in Item 1 of this Annual Report, could have a material adverse impact on the business because we would lose the employees’ skills, knowledge of the market, and years of industry experience and may have difficulty promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Failure to successfully implement our growth strategies could cause us to incur substantial costs and expenses which may not be recouped and adversely affect our future profitability. From time to time, Valley may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Valley may invest significant time and resources to develop and market new lines of business and/or products and services. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting customer preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Additionally, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of Valley’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not keep pace with technological change within the financial services industry, negatively affecting our ability to remain competitive and profitable. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Valley’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Valley’s operations. Many of Valley’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Valley may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Valley’s business and, in turn, Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We rely on our systems, employees and certain service providers, and if our system fails or if our security measures are compromised, our operations could be disrupted or the data of our customers could be improperly divulged. We face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Furthermore, many other financial institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported significant breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other means. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to such cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Additionally, our risk exposure to security matters may remain elevated or increase in the future due to, among other things, the increasing size and prominence of Valley in the financial services industry, our expansion of Internet and mobile banking tools and products based on customer needs, and the system and customer account conversions associated with the integration of merger targets. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as us) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We maintain a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure or internal controls, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition, (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services and (iv) changes in the vendor’s strategic focus. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, acts of terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our ability to conduct our business. A significant portion of our primary markets is located near coastal waters which could generate naturally occurring severe weather, or in response to climate change, that could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Many areas in Northern New Jersey in which our branches operate are subject to severe flooding and significant weather related disruptions may become common events in the future. During the fourth quarter of 2012, Hurricane Sandy struck the Northeast and caused severe property damage and many business closures throughout the New Jersey and New York Metropolitan areas. Although, this storm did not materially impact our operations or the vast majority of our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans or the collateral values securing their loans, the risk of such disruptions and potential losses remain from future storm activity. Additionally, New York City and New Jersey remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism against the United States. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established and regularly test 29 Table of Contents disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review prior to originating certain commercial real estate loans, as well as before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur future losses in connection with repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market. We engage in the origination of residential mortgages for sale into the secondary market. In connection with such sales, we make representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. The substantial decline in residential real estate values and the standards used by some originators has resulted in more repurchase requests to many secondary market participants from secondary market purchasers. Since January 1, 2006, we have originated and sold over 16,800 individual residential mortgages totaling approximately $3.5 billion. Of the $3.5 billion in originations, approximately $20 million in unpaid principal balances remain outstanding from the origination years 2006 through 2008. These particular years are considered to be ‘high risk’ years in the mortgage industry due to the escalation in housing prices, and subsequent decline during the financial crisis. However, these potentially higher risk loans in our retained mortgage loan servicing portfolio continued to outperform Fannie Mae’s overall portfolio performance (for each applicable origination year) at December 31, 2013. Over the past several years, we have experienced a nominal amount of repurchase requests, and only a few of which have actually resulted in repurchases by Valley (only four loan repurchases in 2013). None of the loan repurchases resulted in loss. As of December 31, 2013, no reserves pertaining to loans sold were established on our financial statements. While we currently believe our repurchase risk remains low based upon our careful loan underwriting and documentation standards, it is possible that requests to repurchase loans could occur in the future and such requests may have a negative financial impact on us. Claims and litigation pertaining to our fiduciary responsibility and other obligations could result in losses and damage to our reputation. From time to time as part of Valley’s normal course of business, customers, bankruptcy trustees, former customers, contractual counterparties, third parties and former employees make claims and take legal action against Valley based on actions or inactions of Valley. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Valley, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Valley and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for Valley’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 