Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent in our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Valley are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other 12 Table of Contents information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Valley. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or that management currently believes are immaterial may also impair Valley’s business operations. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Services Industry and U.S. and Global Credit Markets May Adversely Impact Our Operations and Results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 throughout 2008 and 2009 to date in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn for the remainder of 2009 and possibly beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Declines in Value May Adversely Impact the Investment Portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively. We may be required to record impairment charges (or mark-to-market adjustments) on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of our Bank to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in our Bank not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Changes in Interest Rates Can Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability. Valley’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond Valley’s control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Valley receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Valley’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Valley’s financial assets and liabilities, including the held to maturity, available for sale, and trading securities portfolios, and (iii) the average duration of Valley’s interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. 13 Table of Contents Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Valley’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. The Price of Our Common Stock May Fluctuate. The price of our common stock on the NYSE constantly changes and recently, given the uncertainty in the financial markets, has fluctuated widely. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Holders of our common stock will be subject to the risk of volatility and changes in prices. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • events negatively impacting the financial services industry which result in a general decline in the market valuation of our common stock; • announcements of material developments affecting our operations or our dividend policy; • future sales of our equity securities; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and • general domestic economic and market conditions. In addition, recently the stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the potential that Valley will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. 14 Table of Contents We May be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the Financial Services Industry. Valley faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than Valley. Valley competes with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, title agencies, asset managers, insurance companies and a large list of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Mergers between financial institutions within New Jersey and in neighboring states have added competitive pressure. If Valley is unable to compete effectively, it will lose market share and its income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products will decline. Our Preferred Shares Impact Net Income Available to Our Common Stockholders and Our Earnings Per Share. As long as there are senior preferred shares outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the senior preferred shares have been paid in full. The dividends declared on our fixed rate preferred shares will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase Valley common stock issued to the Treasury Department, in conjunction with the preferred shares, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The senior preferred shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Valley. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future Offerings of Debt or Other Securities May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or Valley National Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or Valley National Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient. Valley maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience and delinquency trends. However, Valley cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and Valley cannot provide assurance that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. If net charge-offs exceed Valley’s allowance, its earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory 15 Table of Contents agencies review Valley’s allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Valley’s management could also decide that the allowance for loan losses should be increased. An increase in Valley’s allowance for loan losses could reduce its earnings. Loss of Lower-Cost Funding Sources. Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, Valley could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing Valley’s net interest income and net income. Changes in Primary Market Areas Could Adversely Impact Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Much of Valley’s lending is in northern and central New Jersey and New York City. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in New Jersey and the New York City metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of Valley’s loan portfolio, and accordingly, Valley’s results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could restrict borrowers’ ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of Valley’s business. Valley’s loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in Valley’s portfolio is located in New Jersey and New York City. Conditions in the real estate markets in which the collateral for Valley’s loans are located strongly influence the level of Valley’s non-performing loans and results of operations. A decline in the New Jersey and New York City metropolitan area real estate markets, as well as other external factors, could adversely affect Valley’s loan portfolio. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt Valley’s Business and Dilute Shareholder Value. Valley regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of Valley’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. Implementation of Growth Strategies. Valley has a strategic branch expansion initiative to expand its physical presence in New York City, including Kings and Queens counties, New York, and fill in its markets within New Jersey. Additionally, in 2007, Valley expanded the geographic presence of its auto loan dealer network into Connecticut, which network already includes Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, and Florida (the Florida dealer network was an insignificant portion of our overall auto loan production in 2008 and 2007 and Valley stopped loan origination activity in this state during February 2009). Valley can provide no assurances that it will successfully implement or continue these initiatives. Valley’s ability to successfully execute these initiatives depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities and locations, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in Valley’s new market areas, and the ability to manage growth. These initiatives could cause Valley’s expenses to increase faster than revenues. 16 Table of Contents There are considerable initial and on-going costs involved in opening branches, growing loans in new markets, and attracting new deposit relationships. These expenses could negatively impact future earnings. For example, it takes time for new branches and relationships to achieve profitability. Expenses could be further increased if there are delays in the opening of new branches or if attraction strategies are more costly than expected. Delays in opening new branches can be caused by a number of factors such as the inability to find suitable locations, zoning and construction delays, and the inability to attract qualified personnel to staff the new branch. In addition, there is no assurance that a new branch will be successful even after it has been established. From time to time, Valley may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Valley may invest significant time and resources to develop and market new lines of business and/or products and services. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting customer preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Additionally, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of Valley’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Accounting Policies or Accounting Standards. Valley’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of Valley’s assets or liabilities and financial results. Valley identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security valuations, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the form and content of Valley’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and Valley’s outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond Valley’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how Valley reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, Valley could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently (also retroactively) which may result in Valley restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Extensive Regulation and Supervision. Valley, primarily through its principal subsidiary, Valley National Bank, and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. Such laws are not designed to protect Valley shareholders. These regulations affect Valley’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Valley is also subject to a number of federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes, especially for the TARP Capital Purchase Program (which Valley is a participant). Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Valley in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Valley to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of 17 Table of Contents non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Valley’s compliance with certain of these laws will be considered by banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions. While Valley has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. In particular, the documents that we executed with the Treasury when they purchased the senior preferred stock allow the Treasury to unilaterally change the terms of the senior preferred stock or impose additional requirements on Valley and/or the Bank if there is a change in law. These changes or additional requirements could restrict Valley’s ability to conduct its business, could subject Valley to additional cost and expense or could change the terms of the senior preferred stock agreement to the detriment of Valley’s common shareholders. While it may be possible for Valley to redeem the senior preferred stock in the event the Treasury imposes any changes or additional requirements that Valley believes are detrimental, there can be no assurances that Valley’s federal regulator will approve such redemption (as is required by law) or that Valley will have the ability to implement such redemption. Encountering Continuous Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Valley’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in Valley’s operations. Many of Valley’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Valley may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Valley’s business and, in turn, Valley’s financial condition and results of operations. Operational Risk. Valley faces the risk that the design of its controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates Valley’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of Valley’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Valley may also be subject to disruptions of its systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Valley is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is Valley) and to the risk that Valley’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Valley’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, Valley faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. Valley’s business operations could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. 18 Table of Contents Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility. From time to time as part of Valley’s normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against Valley based on actions or inactions of Valley. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Valley, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Valley and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for Valley’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Valley’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 