Item 1A. Risk Factors. While we have a history of profitability and operate with capital that exceeds the requirements of bank regulatory agencies, the financial services industry in which we operate has been adversely affected by the current weak economic environment. Further, an investment in our common stock (like an investment in the equity securities of any business enterprise) is subject to other investment risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the principal risks and uncertainties to which our industry in general, and we and our assets and businesses specifically, are subject; other risks are briefly identified in our cautionary statement that is included under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks” in Part I, Item 1, “Business.” Although we seek ways to manage these risks and uncertainties and to develop programs to control those that we can, we ultimately cannot predict the future. Future results may differ materially from past results, and from our expectations and plans. Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. The U.S. economy entered a recession during the third quarter of 2008, and the housing and real estate markets have been experiencing extraordinary slowdowns since 2007. Additionally, unemployment rates continually rose during these periods. These factors have had a significant negative effect on companies in the financial services industry. As a lending institution, our business is directly affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, as well as by the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures many of our loans. Market turmoil has led to an increase in charge-offs and has negatively impacted consumer confidence and the level of business activity. Continued weakness or further deterioration in the economy, real estate markets or unemployment rates, particularly in the markets in which we operate, can place downward pressure on the credit worthiness of bank customers and their inclinations to borrow. A continued or worsening disruption and volatility could negatively impact customers' ability to seek new loans or to repay existing loans, diminish the values of any collateral securing such loans and could cause increases in delinquencies, problem assets, charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, the underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted may not prevent losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Since our business is concentrated in southern Indiana, declines in the economy of this region could adversely affect our business. 7 Our FDIC insurance premiums may increase, and special assessments could be made, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline of its deposit insurance fund to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended, increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. These developments have caused our FDIC insurance premiums to increase, and may cause additional increases. On September 30, 2009, the FDIC collected a special assessment from each insured institution, and additional assessments are possible. In addition, the FDIC also collected 13 quarters of prepaid insurance premiums on December 30, 2009. We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. The banking industry in which we operate is subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtain financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation, none of which is in our control. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws (including changes in federal or state laws affecting corporate taxpayers generally or financial institutions specifically) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future regarding the financial services industry may significantly increase our costs or limit our ability to conduct our business in a profitable manner. As a result of the ongoing financial crisis and challenging market conditions and concerns regarding the consumer lending practices of certain institutions, we expect to face increased regulation and regulatory and political scrutiny of the financial services industry. We are already subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. The cost of compliance with such laws and regulations can be substantial and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. While we are unable to predict the scope or impact of any potential legislation or regulatory action, bills that would result in significant changes to financial institutions have been introduced in Congress and it is possible that such legislation or implementing regulations could significantly increase our regulatory compliance costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, negatively impact the recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, require us to increase our regulatory capital, interfere with our executive compensation plans, or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities (such as potential opportunities to acquire assets or other institutions or businesses) in an efficient manner. Additional Risks Related to Our Operations and Business and Financial Strategies If our actual loan losses exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition will be impacted. A significant source of risk for any bank or other enterprise that lends money arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail (because of financial difficulties or other reasons) to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. In our case, we originate many loans that are secured, but some loans are unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans includes a wide variety of real and personal property that may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans, due to adverse changes in collateral values caused by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate and other external events. 8 We could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our success is tied to the economic vitality of our Southern Indiana markets. We conduct business from offices that are exclusively located in ten contiguous counties of Southern Indiana, from which substantially all of our customer base is drawn. Because of the geographic concentration of our operations and customer base, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. If current levels of market disruption and volatility worsen in our primary service areas, the quality of our loan portfolio, and the demand for our products and services, could be adversely affected, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We face substantial competition. The banking and financial services business in our markets is highly competitive. We compete with much larger regional, national, and international competitors, including competitors that have no (or only a limited number of) offices physically located within our markets. In addition, new banks could be organized in our market area which might bid aggressively for new business to capture market share in these markets. Developments increasing the nature or level of our competition, or decreasing the effectiveness by which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See also Part I, Item 1, of this report, “Business—Competition,” and “Business—Regulation and Supervision.” The manner in which we report our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by accounting changes. Our financial condition and results of operations that are presented in our consolidated financial statements, accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements, and selected financial data appearing in this report, are, to a large degree, dependent upon our accounting policies. The selection of and application of these policies involve estimates, judgments and uncertainties that are subject to change, and the effect of any change in estimates or judgments that might be caused by future developments or resolution of uncertainties could be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations. In addition, authorities that prescribe accounting principles and standards for public companies from time to time change those principles or standards or adopt formal or informal interpretations of existing principles or standards. Such changes or interpretations (to the extent applicable to us) could result in changes that would be materially adverse to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and borrowings as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of our lenders or market conditions were to change. The value of securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for investment securities has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of securities that we hold in our investment portfolio, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. 9 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the financial services industry (including banking personnel, trust and investments personnel, and insurance personnel) is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in our local Southern Indiana markets. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified loan origination executives, sales executives for our trust and investment products and services, and sales executives for our insurance products and services. We also depend upon the continued contributions of our management personnel, and in particular upon the abilities of our senior executive management, and the loss of the services of one or more of them could harm our business. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties (including liabilities for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination), or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. Any acquisitions of banks, bank branches, or loans or other financial service assets pose risks to us. In the past several years, we have completed several purchases of loan portfolios from other banks and have agreed to expand into the Evansville, Indiana market by buying two branches of another bank. We may continue to buy banks, bank branches and other financial-service-related businesses and assets in the future. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities or asset quality issues of the acquired assets, operations or company; · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired assets, operations or company; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired assets, operations or company; 10 · environmental liability with acquired real estate collateral or other real estate; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the acquired assets, operations or company; · potential disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of our management’s time and attention; · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired operations or company; · difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired assets, operations or company; and · potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the acquired assets, operations or company. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with mergers or acquisitions. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company's tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may participate in FDIC-assisted acquisitions, which could present additional risks to our financial condition. We may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of troubled financial institutions in transactions facilitated by the FDIC. In addition to the risks frequently associated with acquisitions, an acquisition of a troubled financial institution may involve a greater risk that the acquired assets underperform compared to our expectations. Because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for and evaluating an acquisition, including preparing for integration of an acquired institution, we may face additional risks including, among other things, the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems. Additionally, while the FDIC may agree to assume certain losses in transactions that it facilitates, there can be no assurances that we would not be required to raise additional capital as a condition to, or as a result of, participation in an FDIC-assisted transaction. Any such transactions and related issuances of stock may have dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 