ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect the Corporation’s business and results of operations From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. The Corporation’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services that the Corporation offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Corporation operates and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors. During 2011, the business environment continued to be adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. While economic conditions in the United States and worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Such conditions have affected, and could continue to adversely affect, the credit quality of the Corporation’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. In response to economic and market conditions, from time to time the Corporation has undertaken initiatives to reduce its cost structure where appropriate. These initiatives may not be sufficient to meet current and future changes in economic and market conditions and allow the Corporation to maintain profitability. In addition, costs actually incurred in connection with these restructuring actions may be higher than our estimates of such costs or may not lead to the anticipated cost savings. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us The ability of the Corporation to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by the Corporation or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of default of the Corporation’s counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation’s credit risk may be adversely impacted when the collateral held by the Corporation cannot be realized upon or its liquidated price is not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect There has been much legislative and regulatory action in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the legislation and its implementing regulations or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets or on the Corporation. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock. Contemplated and proposed legislation, state and federal programs, and increased government control or influence may adversely affect the Corporation by increasing the uncertainty on its lending operations and expose it to increased losses. Statutes and regulations may be altered which potentially increase the Corporation’s cost of service and underwrite mortgage loans. 12 Table of Contents Recently enacted and potential further financial regulatory reforms could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Corporation. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect the Corporation’s business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Corporation’s operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: · a reduction in the ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; · increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums;· · the limitation on the ability to raise new capital through the use of trust preferred securities, as any new issuances of these securities will no longer be included as Tier 1 capital going forward; · a potential reduction in fee income due to limits on interchange fees applicable to larger institutions which could effectively reduce the fees we can charge; and · the limitation on the ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. Further, the Corporation may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, which may negatively impact results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect the U.S. financial system or financial institutions, whether or when such changes may be adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced or how such changes may impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. However, the costs of complying with any additional laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk The Corporation’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon the Corporation’s net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Corporation’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest that is received on loans and securities and the interest that is paid on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Corporation’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and (ii) the fair value of the Corporation’s financial assets and liabilities. Currently, the Corporation is in an asset-sensitive position. In a rising interest rate environment, the Corporation may be unable to sell its lower-yielding mortgage loans, thus impacting its ability to generate higher yielding loans which could adversely impact earnings. The Corporation is subject to lending risk There are inherent risks associated with the Corporation’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Corporation operates as well as those across Indiana, Illinois and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. Credit issues may continue to broaden during 2012 depending on the severity and duration of the declining economy and the current credit cycle. The Corporation originates commercial real estate loans, commercial loans, consumer loans and residential real estate loans primarily within its market areas. Commercial real estate, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: · Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. · Commercial Loans. Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. 13 Table of Contents · Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. The Corporation is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Corporation. The Corporation’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable incurred losses that are inherent within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Corporation will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation may foreclose on collateral property and would be subject to the increased costs associated with ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings The Corporation forecloses on collateral property from time to time to protect its investment and thereafter owns and operates such property, in which case it is exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that the Corporation, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of its control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) environmental remediation liabilities; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the income earned from such property, and the Corporation may have to advance funds in order to protect its investment, or it may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. These expenditures and costs could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive industry and market area The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors include banks and many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Corporation can. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, and safe, sound assets; · The ability to expand the Corporation’s market position; · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · The rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; 14 Table of Contents · Customer satisfaction with the Corporation’s level of service; and · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Corporation’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. On July 18, 2011, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System published a final rule repealing Regulation Q, which prohibits the payment of interest on demand deposits by institutions that are member banks of the Federal Reserve System. The rule implements Section 627 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed by President Obama on July 21, 2010, which repealed Section 19(i) of the Federal Reserve Act in its entirety effective July 21, 2011. As a result, financial institutions may now offer interest-bearing demand deposit accounts to commercial customers, which were previously forbidden under Regulation Q. The repeal of Regulation Q may cause increased competition from other financial institutions for these deposits. If the Bank decides to pay interest on demand accounts, it would expect interest expense to increase. The Corporation is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision The Corporation, primarily through the Bank, is subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Corporation’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. The Corporation is dependent on certain key management and staff The Corporation relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect the Corporation’s revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Corporation’s net income. The Corporation’s internal operations are subject to a number of risks The Corporation’s internal operations are subject to certain risks, including but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Corporation’s operations. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business and, in turn, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failures that are not within our direct control Financial institutions are inherently exposed to fraud risk. A fraud can be perpetrated by a customer of the Bank, an employee, a vendor, or members of the general public. We are most subject to fraud and compliance risk in connection with the origination of loans, ACH transactions, ATM transactions and checking transactions. Our largest fraud risk, associated with the origination of loans, includes the intentional misstatement of information in property appraisals or other underwriting documentation provided to us by third parties. Compliance risk is the risk that loans are not originated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our standards. There can be no assurance that we can prevent or 15 Table of Contents detect acts of fraud or violation of law or our compliance standards by the third parties that we deal with. Repeated incidences of fraud or compliance failures would adversely impact the performance of our loan portfolio. The Corporation’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation has opened new offices The Corporation has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding its banking office network. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth in the new offices, which require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new offices can decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by those offices, and opening new offices could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. The geographic concentration of the Corporation’s markets makes the Corporation’s business highly susceptible to local economic conditions Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, the Corporation’s operations are currently concentrated in three counties located in central Indiana. As a result of this geographic concentration, the Corporation’s financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the Corporation’s market could result in one or more of the following: · an increase in loan delinquencies; · an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; · a decrease in the demand for the Corporation’s products and services; and · a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. Future growth or operating results may require the Corporation to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Corporation’s future operating results erode capital or the Corporation elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Corporation’s ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Corporation’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Corporation cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Corporation’s ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice The Corporation has historically paid a semi-annual dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. The price of the Corporation’s common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Corporation’s common stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of the Corporation’s common stock to fluctuate: · announcements of developments related to the Corporation’s business; 16 Table of Contents · fluctuations in the Corporation’s results of operations; · sales or purchases of substantial amounts of the Corporation’s securities in the marketplace; · general conditions in the Corporation’s banking niche or the worldwide economy; · a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; · changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and · the Corporation’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 