Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in Bancorp’s common stock is subject to risks inherent in Bancorp’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Bancorp are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing Bancorp. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair Bancorp’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of Bancorp’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Bancorp Relies on Dividends from the Bank for Most of its Revenue. Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends received from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Bancorp’s common stock, and interest and principal on its outstanding debt securities. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to Bancorp. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, Bancorp may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on Bancorp’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1 — Supervision and Regulation and Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. Bancorp may have higher credit losses than Bancorp’s allowance for credit losses. The Bank maintains an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that will be incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated credit losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific loan risks; credit loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current loan risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Bank’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. Approximately 55% of the Bank’s loan portfolio is composed of construction, commercial mortgage and commercial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Bank’s allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, the Bank will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for credit losses. Any increases in the 15 Table of Contents allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. See Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses in the accompanying Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion related to the Bank’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for possible credit losses. Risk Relating to the Completed Merger and Bank Merger. The Merger and the Bank Merger were completed in July 2007 and November 2007, respectively. Bancorp may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings associated with the Merger and Bank Merger or such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; expected revenue synergies and cost savings may not be fully realized or realized within the expected time frame; revenues may be lower than expected; and customer and employee relationships and business operations may be disrupted. Any such events could have a material negative impact on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect Bancorp’s stock price. Bancorp’s growth strategy may not be successful. As a strategy, Bancorp seeks to increase the size of its franchise by pursuing business development opportunities. Bancorp can provide no assurance that it will be successful in increasing the volume of Bancorp’s loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms, expanding its asset base while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any expansion will be profitable or that Bancorp will be able to sustain its growth, either through internal growth or through successful expansions of its banking markets, or that Bancorp will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support its continued growth. The Bank is Subject to Interest Rate Risk. The Bank’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Bank’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Bank’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of certain of the Bank’s interest-rate sensitive assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Bank’s net interest income and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, there are costs associated with the Bank’s risk management techniques, and these costs could be material. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurances of the Bank’s ability to continue to maintain a consistent positive spread between the interest earned on the Bank’s earning assets and the interest paid on the Bank’s interest-bearing liabilities. See Market Risk Management — Asset-Liability Management and Interest Rate Risk in the accompanying Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to Bancorp’s management of interest rate risk. If the Bank loses key employees with significant business contacts in its market areas, its business may suffer. The Bank’s success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in its market areas. If the Bank loses key employees temporarily or permanently, this could have a material adverse effect on the business. The Bank could be particularly hurt if its key employees go to work for competitors. The Bank’s 16 Table of Contents future success depends on the continued contributions of its existing senior management personnel, many of whom have significant local experience and contacts in its market areas. The Bank has employment agreements or non-competition agreements with several of its senior and executive officers in an attempt to partially mitigate this risk. Bancorp’s operating results and financial condition would likely suffer if there is deterioration in the general economic condition of the areas in which the Bank does business. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank primarily provides services to customers located in the Piedmont Triad Region and Coastal Region in NC and the Shenendoah Valley Region in VA. Because the Bank’s lending and deposit-gathering activities are concentrated in these markets, particularly the Piedmont Triad, the Bank will be affected by the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Adverse developments in local industries have had and could continue to have a negative affect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Even though the Bank’s customers’ business and financial interest may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce the Bank’s growth rate, affect the ability of the Bank’s customers to repay their loans and generally affect Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. A significant decline in general economic conditions in the Bank’s market areas, or the entire country, caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors which are beyond Bancorp’s control would also impact these local economic conditions and could have an adverse affect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. Bancorp is subject to security and operational risks related to the technology Bancorp uses that could result in a loss of customers, increased costs and other damages which could be material. Bancorp depends on data processing, software and communication and information exchange on a variety of platforms, networks and over the internet. Despite safeguards, Bancorp cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Any failure or interruptions or breach of security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any such failures or difficulties could result in a loss of customer business, damage the Bank’s reputation, subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Government regulations may prevent or impair Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends, engage in additional acquisitions, or operate in other ways. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect Bancorp’s operations. Bancorp is subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve and the Commissioner. The Bank, as a state chartered non-member commercial bank, receives regulatory scrutiny from the FDIC and the Commissioner. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit its growth and the return to you as an investor in the Company, by restricting Bancorp’s activities, such as: • the payment of dividends to shareholders; • possible transactions with or acquisitions by other institutions; • desired investments; • loans and interest rates; • the level of its allowance for credit losses; • imposing higher capital requirements; • interest rates paid on deposits; • the possible expansion of branch offices; and • the ability to provide other services. 17 Table of Contents Bancorp cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on its business. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect Bancorp’s ability to operate profitably. The Bank faces strong competition in its market areas, which may limit its asset growth and profitability. The banking business in the Bank’s market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing the Bank may increase further, which may limit the Bank’s asset growth and/or profitability. Bancorp experiences competition in both lending and attracting deposits from other banks and nonbank financial institutions located within its market areas, some of which are significantly larger institutions and may have more financial resources than the Bank. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and local financial institutions within the Bank’s market areas. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have begun to enter or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which the Bank currently operates. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, savings banks, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, the Bank encounters competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts, securities firms and major retail stores that offer competing financial services. Many of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Bank can offer. The Bank is Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated with Lending Activities. A significant portion of Bancorp’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations of enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. Bancorp may need additional capital resources in the future which may not be available when needed or at all. Bancorp may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future for growth, investment, or strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available to Bancorp on acceptable terms, or at all. If Bancorp is unable to obtain such additional financing, Bancorp may not be able to grow or make strategic acquisitions or investments when desired, which could have a material adverse impact on Bancorp’s business and, in turn, Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. Bancorp common stock is not FDIC insured. Bancorp common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investment in Bancorp’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, holders of Bancorp’s common stock may lose some or all of their investment. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 