Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results and financial condition would likely suffer if there is deterioration in the general economic condition of the areas in which we do business. Our primary markets are in Davidson, Forsyth, Guilford, Randolph and Stokes counties in North Carolina. Because our lending and deposit-gathering activities are concentrated in these markets, we will be affected by the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. These markets are heavily dependent on the manufacturing industry and adverse developments in local industry have had and could continue to have a negative affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Even though our customers’ business and financial interest may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. A significant decline in general economic conditions in North Carolina or the entire country caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors which are beyond our control would also impact these local economic conditions and could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results would likely suffer if management determines that there needs to be an increase in allowance for loan losses due to certain factors. Management periodically makes a determination of our allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of our loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of our nonaccruing loans. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance may not be sufficient. Increases in this allowance will result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of economic conditions or an increase in non-performing loans, management determines that an increase in our allowance for loan losses is necessary it could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity would be adversely affected if, due to changes in economic conditions or otherwise, a material number of our borrowers or borrowers with a material amount of loans outstanding with us defaulted on their loans and the security, if any, supporting such loans proved insufficient to pay those loans, and our costs related thereto, in full. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most loans originated by us are secured, but some loans are unsecured depending on the nature of the loan. With secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and several other events. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Changes in interest rates could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our primary source of income from operations is net interest income, which equals the difference between the interest income we generate on loans, investments and other interest-bearing assets and the interest expense we incur on deposits, borrowing and other interest-bearing liabilities. Our net interest income is affected by 8 Table of Contents changes in market interest rates. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. The businesses in which we are engaged are highly competitive and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by actions taken by our competitors. We face competition for banking services from national and state banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, investment banking and brokerage firms, and mortgage and finance companies in the attraction of deposit accounts and in the origination of mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically derived from other commercial banks located in and around the markets in which we maintain banking offices. We also compete for deposits with regional and super-regional banks, money market instruments and mutual funds. We compete for loans principally through the interest rates and loan fees we charge and the efficiency and quality of services we provide borrowers. Our competition for loans also comes principally from other commercial banks, including offices of regional and super-regional banks, located in and around our markets. If we are unable to continually attract and retain sufficient numbers of banking customers we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively affected. Changes in the various laws and regulations that govern our businesses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. During 2006, we closed in on the threshold of a billion dollar bank holding company and are now subject to annual joint examinations by the state of North Carolina and the FDIC along with heightened focus during those examinations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us and/or our ability to increase the value of our business. Our fee revenue from LSBIS is highly dependent on the value of assets under our care and the trading volume of our customers in their brokerage accounts, which in turn could be materially adversely affected by national and local economic conditions. The fee revenue of LSBIS is largely dependent on the fair market value of assets in our customers’ accounts and the trading volumes of the brokerage business. General economic conditions and their subsequent effect on the securities markets tend to act in tandem. When general economic conditions deteriorate, consumer and corporate confidence in securities markets erodes, and LSBIS’ revenues are negatively impacted as asset values and trading volumes decrease. We are subject to security and operational risks related to the technology we use that could result in a loss of customers, increased costs and other damages which could be material. We depend on data processing, software and communication and information exchange on a variety of platforms, networks and over the internet. Despite safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Any failure or interruptions or breach of security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any difficulties or failures could result in a loss of customer business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 9 Table of Contents 