ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Difficult Conditions In The Capital Markets And The Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business And Results Of Operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months at unprecedented levels. In many cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and national recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage-and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current mortgage crisis and economic slowdown has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of EESA that could further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents There Can Be No Assurance That Actions Of The U.S. Government, Federal Reserve And Other Governmental And Regulatory Bodies For The Purpose Of Stabilizing The Financial Markets Will Achieve The Intended Effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed EESA into law. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury has the authority to utilize up to $700 billion to purchase distressed assets from financial institutions or infuse capital into financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under EESA pursuant to which it has purchased and will continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions such as the Corporation. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that EESA, including the Capital Purchase Program and the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Repurchase Program, will have on the financial markets or on us. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The federal government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. We May Be Required To Pay Significantly Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Premiums In The Future. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, EESA temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000. These developments will cause the premiums assessed to us by the FDIC to increase. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC Board of Directors determined deposit insurance assessment rates for the first quarter of 2009 at 12 to 14 basis points per $100 of deposits. Beginning April 1, 2009, the rates will increase to 12 to 16 basis points per $100 of deposits. Additionally, the FDIC implemented a 5 basis point special emergency assessment on June 30, 2009, payable September 30, 2009. Additionally, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments for these periods were collected on December 30, 2009, along with the regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. This prepayment does not preclude the FDIC from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system during the prepayment period or thereafter. As a result, we may also be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance assessments premiums in the future. These higher FDIC assessment rates and any future special assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Future Growth Or Operating Results May Require The Corporation To Raise Additional Capital But That Capital May Not Be Available Or It May Be Dilutive. The Corporation is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Corporation’s future operating results erode capital or the Corporation elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Corporation’s ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Corporation’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Corporation cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Corporation’s ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We May Not Be Able To Pay Dividends In The Future In Accordance With Past Practice. The Corporation has traditionally paid a semi-annual dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation’s Board of Directors. The Price Of The Corporation’s Common Stock May Be Volatile, Which May Result In Losses For Investors. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Corporation’s common stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of the Corporation’s common stock to fluctuate: • announcements of developments related to the Corporation’s business; • fluctuations in the Corporation’s results of operations; • sales or purchases of substantial amounts of the Corporation’s securities in the marketplace; • general conditions in the Corporation’s banking niche or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • the Corporation’s announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. The Corporation Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Corporation’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of the Corporation’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. The Corporation Is Subject To Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Corporation’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Corporation operates as well as those across Indiana, Illinois and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Corporation is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with the applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Corporation. 10 Table of Contents The Corporation’s Allowance for Possible Loan Losses May Be Insufficient The Corporation maintains an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses; the Corporation will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increase in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Operates In a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Such competitors include banks and many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand the Corporation’s market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with the Corporation’s level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Corporation’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The Corporation, primarily through the Bank, is subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Corporation’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. 11 Table of Contents Recent Negative Developments In The Financial Industry And The Credit Markets May Subject Us To Additional Regulation. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. The Corporation’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation Is Dependent On Certain Key Management and Staff The Corporation relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Corporation’s net income. The Corporation’s Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, it they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Continually Encounters Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Corporation’s operations. Failure to successfully keep pace with the technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s business and, in turn, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 