ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE CORPORATION IS SUBJECT TO INTEREST RATE RISK Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Corporation's net income. Interest rates are key drivers of the Corporation's net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. THE CORPORATION IS SUBJECT TO LENDING RISK There are inherent risks associated with the Corporation's lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Corporation operates as well as those across Indiana, Illinois and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Corporation is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Corporation. THE CORPORATION'S ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE LOAN LOSSES MAY BE INSUFFICIENT The Corporation maintains an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation's control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, the Corporation will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. THE CORPORATION OPERATES IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY AND MARKET AREA The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Such competitors include banks and many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies 2 and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation's competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. The Corporation's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: o The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, and safe, sound assets. o The ability to expand the Corporation's market position. o The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. o The rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. o Customer satisfaction with the Corporation's level of service. o Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Corporation's competitive position, which could adversely affect the Corporation's growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the corporation's financial condition and results of operations. THE CORPORATION IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND SUPERVISION The Corporation, primarily through the Bank, is subject to extensive federal regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Corporation's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. THE CORPORATION'S CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES MAY FAIL OR BE CIRCUMVENTED Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, results of operations and financial condition. THE CORPORATION IS DEPENDENT ON CERTAIN KEY MANAGEMENT AND STAFF The Corporation relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Corporation's net income. \ 3 THE CORPORATION'S INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR BREACH IN SECURITY The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation's information systems could damage the Corporation's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. THE CORPORATION CONTINUALLY ENCOUNTERS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Corporation's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Corporation's operations. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's business and, in turn, the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 