Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in Bancorp’s common stock is subject to risks inherent in Bancorp’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Bancorp are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing Bancorp. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair Bancorp’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of Bancorp’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Recent Economic Conditions and Governmental Response Efforts Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The global, U.S. and North Carolina economies are continuing to experience significantly reduced business activity and consumer spending as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the capital and credit markets that first occurred during 2008. Since 2008, dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans or other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; • an impairment of certain intangible assets or investment securities; • a decreased ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all; or • an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which would reduce our earnings. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to continue to be adversely affected. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect Bancorp’s net income and profitability. Since 2008, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest-bearing transactional accounts are currently fully insured (unlimited coverage). These 13 Table of Contents programs have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of estimated deposit insurance premiums by December 31, 2009. The FDIC exempted the Bank from this prepayment requirement, and the Bank continues to pay these premiums on a quarterly basis. Bancorp is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that the Bank is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or the cost of resolving prior failures exceeds expectations, the Bank may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact Bancorp’s earnings and financial condition. The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. During the economic downturn, the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, Bancorp’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. Bancorp’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain the Bank’s ability to make new loans, to meet the Bank’s existing lending commitments and, ultimately jeopardize the Bank’s overall liquidity and capitalization. Additional requirements under our regulatory framework, especially those imposed under ARRA, EESA or other legislation or regulations intended to strengthen the U.S. financial system, could adversely affect us. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system, including the implementation of ARRA, EESA, the TLGP and special assessments imposed by the FDIC, subject participants to additional regulatory fees and requirements, including corporate governance requirements, executive compensation restrictions, restrictions on declaring or paying dividends, restrictions on share repurchases, limits on executive compensation tax deductions and prohibitions against golden parachute payments. These requirements, and any other requirements that may be subsequently imposed, may have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our participation in the CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the capital markets. On December 12, 2008, we issued and sold (i) 52,372 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) a Warrant to purchase 2,567,255 shares of Bancorp’s common stock, par value $5.00 per share, to the U.S. Treasury as part of its CPP. Prior to December 12, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to a maximum quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% to 9%. Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA and subsequent regulations may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. In the case of a company such as Bancorp that received CPP funds, the ARRA, and subsequent regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury, contain restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the company’s senior executive officers. As a consequence, we may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain our highest performing employees and attract new employees of a high caliber. If this were to occur, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by 14 Table of Contents significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. From time to time, we utilize derivative financial instruments, primarily to hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates, but also to hedge cash flow. By entering into these transactions and derivative instrument contracts, we expose ourselves to counterparty credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. When the fair value of a derivative contract is in an asset position, the counterparty has a liability to us, which creates credit risk for us. We attempt to minimize this risk by selecting counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting our exposure to any single counterparty and regularly monitoring our market position with each counterparty. Nonetheless, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Significant declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Bancorp has experienced significant challenges, its credit quality has deteriorated and its net income and results of operations have been adversely impacted. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. Although to date Bancorp and the Bank remain “well capitalized,” and have performed better than many of their peers, we are part of the financial system and a systemic lack of available credit, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Business We rely on dividends from the Bank for most of our revenue. Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. Bancorp receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends received from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Bancorp’s common and preferred stock, and interest and principal on its outstanding debt securities. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to Bancorp. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, Bancorp may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on Bancorp’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1 “Business — Supervision and Regulation” and Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bank is exposed to risks in connection with the loans it makes. A significant source of risk for Bancorp and the Bank arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained by the Bank because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Bank has underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that it believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, 15 Table of Contents tracking loan performance and diversifying its loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. All borrowers carry the potential to default and our remedies to recover (seizure and/or sale of collateral, legal actions, guarantees, etc.) may not fully satisfy money previously lent. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which represents management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the value of real estate in the markets we serve were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. At December 31, 2009, our loans secured by real estate totaled $1.22 billion, or 83.4% of total loans. With these loans concentrated within our three markets, the Piedmont Triad Region, Coastal Region and Shenandoah Valley Region, a decline in local economic conditions in these markets could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. See Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses in the accompanying Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion related to the Bank’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for possible credit losses. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would negatively impact our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies, and natural disasters. Our commercial real estate lending may expose us to risk of loss and hurt our earnings and profitability. We regularly make loans secured by commercial real estate. These types of loans generally have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities than traditional one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Further, loans secured by commercial real estate properties are generally for larger amounts and involve a greater degree of risk than one to four family residential mortgage loans. Payments on loans secured by these properties are often dependent on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on the successful operation and management of the properties. Accordingly, repayment of these loans is subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. In addition, many economists believe that deterioration in income producing commercial real estate is likely to worsen as vacancy rates continue to rise and absorption rates of existing square footage continue to decline. Because of the current general economic slowdown, these loans represent higher risk, could result in an increase in our total net-charge offs and could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. At December 31, 2009, our loans secured by commercial real estate totaled $636.5 million, which represented 43.5% of total loans, which is below the average percentage concentration for our peer group. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had net charge-offs of loans secured by commercial real estate of $18.9 million, an increase of $8.7 million when compared to the same year-ago period. While we seek to minimize 16 Table of Contents these risks in a variety of ways, there can be no assurance that these measures will protect against credit-related losses. Our construction loans and land development loans involve a higher degree of risk than other segments of our loan portfolio. A portion of our commercial real estate portfolio described above is comprised of construction loans and land development loans. Construction financing typically involves a higher degree of credit risk than other commercial real estate lending. Risk of loss on a construction loan is largely dependent upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the bid price and estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of the value proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted, at or prior to the maturity of the loan, with a project whose value is insufficient to assure full repayment. When lending to builders, the cost of construction breakdown is provided by the builder, as well as supported by the appraisal. Although our underwriting criteria are designed to evaluate and minimize the risks of each construction loan, there can be no guarantee that these practices will safeguard against material delinquencies and losses to our operations. Construction and land development loans are dependent on the successful completion of the projects they finance, however, in many cases such construction and development projects in our primary market areas are not being completed in a timely manner, if at all. At December 31, 2009, we had loans of $177.3 million, or 12.1% of total loans, outstanding to finance construction and land development, which is below the average percentage concentration for our peer group. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had net charge-offs of construction and land development loans of $11.6 million, an increase of $4.4 million when compared to the same year-ago period. Our lending on unimproved land may expose us to a greater risk of loss and may have an adverse effect on results of operations. A portion of our residential and commercial lending is secured by unimproved land. Loans secured by unimproved land are generally more risky than loans secured by improved property for one to four family residential mortgage loans. Since unimproved land is generally held by the borrower for investment purposes or future use, payments on loans secured by unimproved land will typically rank lower in priority to the borrower than a loan the borrower may have on their primary residence or business. These loans are susceptible to adverse conditions in the real estate market and local economy. At December 31, 2009, loans secured by unimproved property totaled $44.7 million, or 3.1% of our loan portfolio. If the Bank loses key employees with significant business contacts in its market areas, its business may suffer. The Bank’s success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in its market areas. If the Bank loses key employees temporarily or permanently, this could have a material adverse effect on the business. The Bank could be particularly affected if its key employees go to work for competitors. The Bank’s future success depends on the continued contributions of its existing senior management personnel, many of whom have significant local experience and contacts in its market areas. The Bank has employment agreements or non-competition agreements with several of its senior and executive officers in an attempt to partially mitigate this risk. Bancorp’s growth strategy may not be successful. As a strategy, Bancorp seeks to increase the size of its franchise by pursuing business development opportunities. Bancorp can provide no assurance that it will be successful in increasing the volume of Bancorp’s loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms, expanding its asset base while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any expansion will be profitable or that Bancorp will be able to sustain its growth, either through internal growth or through successful expansions of its banking markets, or that Bancorp will be able to maintain sufficient levels of capital to support its continued growth. If further deterioration of the Bank’s credit quality should occur, the need to preserve capital levels above the minimum to be deemed “well capitalized” could further restrict the Bank’s ability to pursue a growth strategy. The Bank is subject to interest rate risk. The Bank’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Bank’s control, 17 Table of Contents including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Bank’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of certain of the Bank’s interest-rate sensitive assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Bank’s net interest income and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, there are costs associated with the Bank’s risk management techniques, and these costs could be material. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurances of the Bank’s ability to continue to maintain a consistent, positive spread between the interest earned on the Bank’s earning assets and the interest paid on the Bank’s interest-bearing liabilities. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for further discussion related to Bancorp’s management of interest rate risk. We may face increasing deposit-pricing pressures, which may, among other things, reduce our profitability. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. Bancorp’s operating results and financial condition would likely suffer if there is deterioration in the general economic condition of the areas in which the Bank does business. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank primarily provides services to customers located in the Piedmont Triad Region and Coastal Region in NC and the Shenandoah Valley Region in VA. Because the Bank’s lending and deposit-gathering activities are concentrated in these markets, particularly the Piedmont Triad Region, the Bank will be affected by the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Adverse developments in local industries have had and could continue to have a negative affect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Even though the Bank’s customers’ business and financial interest may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce the Bank’s growth rate, affect the ability of the Bank’s customers to repay their loans and generally affect Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. A further decline in general economic conditions in the Bank’s market areas, caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors which are beyond the Bank’s control would also impact these local economic conditions and could have an adverse affect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. Bancorp and the Bank compete with much larger companies for some of the same business. The banking and financial services business in our market areas continues to be a competitive field and it is becoming more competitive as a result of: • Changes in regulations; • Changes in technology and product delivery systems; and • The accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. We compete for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and nonbank financial services providers, many of which are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services. 18 Table of Contents Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. The Bank is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations of enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital, possible acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, securities sold under repurchase agreements, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We do not anticipate that our retail and commercial deposits will be sufficient to meet our funding needs in the foreseeable future. We therefore rely on deposits obtained through intermediaries, FHLB advances, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other wholesale funding sources to obtain the funds necessary to implement our growth strategy. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, including a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. To the extent we are not successful in obtaining such funding, we will be unable to implement our strategy as planned which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and 19 Table of Contents because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Impairment of investment securities, certain other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, and the intent and ability of Bancorp to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. Under current accounting standards, certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of certain other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Core processing system conversion planned. The Bank plans to convert its core processing system during 2010 in order to enhance its level of customer service and internal efficiency. The replacement of our core processing systems has wide-reaching impacts on our internal operations and business. We can provide no assurance that the amount of this investment will not exceed our expectations and result in materially increased levels of expense or asset impairment charges. There is no assurance that this initiative will achieve the expected cost savings or result in a positive return on our investment. Additionally, if our new core system does not operate as intended, or is not implemented as planned, there could be disruptions in our business which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Technological advances impact Bancorp’s business. The banking industry continues to undergo technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Bancorp’s future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of the Bank’s customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Bank may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to its customers. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed 20 Table of Contents to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Government regulations may prevent or impair Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends, engage in mergers or operate in other ways. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect our operations. The Bank is subject to supervision and periodic examination by the FDIC and the Commissioner. Bancorp is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and the Commissioner. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit the growth and the return to Bancorp’s stockholders by restricting certain activities, such as: • The payment of dividends to our stockholders; • Possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions; • Our desired investments; • Loans and interest rates on loans; • Interest rates paid on our deposits; • The possible expansion of our branch offices; and • Our ability to provide securities or trust services. The Bank also is subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation, and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that it is found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. Bancorp cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on Bancorp’s future business and earnings prospects. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Unpredictable catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp. The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, pandemic disease, windstorms, floods, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and other catastrophes could adversely affect Bancorp’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on the Bank in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to access the financial services offered by the Bank. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Although the Bank carries insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, these events could nevertheless reduce Bancorp’s earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • Recommendations by securities analysts; • Operating results and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • New technology used or services offered by competitors; 21 Table of Contents • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; and • Changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. Bancorp’s trading volume is low compared with larger national and regional banks. Bancorp’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. However, the trading volume of Bancorp’s common stock is relatively low when compared with more seasoned companies listed on the NASDAQ, the NYSE or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. Thus, the market in Bancorp’s common stock may be limited in scope relative to other larger companies. In addition, Bancorp cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will develop. Bancorp has issued preferred stock and subordinated debentures, all of which rank senior to our common stock. Bancorp has issued 52,372 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. This series of preferred stock ranks senior to shares of our common stock. As a result, Bancorp must make dividend payments on the preferred stock before any dividends can be paid on the common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders the preferred stock must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on the common stock. If Bancorp does not remain current in the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, no dividends may be paid on the common stock. In addition, Bancorp has issued $25.8 million in subordinated debentures in connection with its issuance of trust preferred securities. These debentures also rank senior to the common stock. Our preferred stock reduces net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per common share and the Warrant may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our preferred stock will reduce any net income available to holders of common stock and our earnings per common share. The preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of sale, merger, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company. Additionally, the ownership interest of holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant is exercised. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. There may be future issuances of additional subordinated debentures, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue additional subordinated debentures in connection with the issuance of additional trust preferred securities. Such additional debentures would rank senior to the common stock. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of future issuances or the perception that such issuances could occur. Our common stock is not FDIC insured. Bancorp’s common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, holders of our common stock may lose some or all of their investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 22 Table of Contents 