Item 1A. Risk Factors COMPANY-SPECIFIC TRENDS AND RISKS There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our future business, financial performance or share price. Many of these are beyond our control. A description follows of some of the important factors that could have a material negative impact on our future business, operating results, financial 23 Table of Contents condition or share price. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, reference in this section to "we," "ours," "us" or similar terms means the Company, together with its subsidiaries. The level of importance of each of the following trends and risks may vary from time to time, and the trends and risks are not listed in any specific order of importance. These risks, however, are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Trends or events affecting our clients or their industries could decrease the demand for our products and services. We derive our consolidated revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients in the mutual fund, brokerage, investment management, healthcare, telecommunications, video and utilities, other financial service (i.e. insurance, banking, financial planning and mortgage) and other industries. A decline or lack of growth in demand for our products and services in any of the industries we serve could adversely affect our business and earnings. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. Consolidation or limited growth in an industry could reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. Events that adversely affect our clients' businesses, rates of growth or numbers of customers they serve, including decreased demand for our customers' products and services, adverse conditions in our customers' markets or adverse economic conditions generally could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process. We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential customers will accept our products or services. If trends or events do not occur as we expect, we could be negatively impacted. The Securities and Exchange Commission may issue regulations impacting third-party distributors of mutual funds, which could adversely affect our business. The SEC may issue regulations under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 or other legislative authority that would require brokers and financial intermediaries that distribute mutual funds to make more detailed fee disclosures at the point-of-sale. Additionally, brokers and financial intermediaries may be subject to new fiduciary standards-of-care that could cause them to alter their methods of distribution. We cannot predict the requirements the SEC may propose and finally adopt. Regulations that would cause current distribution channels or interest in mutual fund investing to change could impact the number of accounts on our systems and could adversely affect our revenues. An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms could adversely impact our revenues. Our mutual fund clients may decide to allow a broker/dealer who has assisted with the purchase or sale of mutual fund shares to perform subaccounting services. A brokerage firm typically maintains an "omnibus" account with the fund's transfer agent that represents the aggregate number of shares of a mutual fund owned by the brokerage firm's customers. The omnibus account structure results in fewer mutual fund shareowner accounts on our systems, which adversely affects our revenues. We offer subaccounting services to brokerage firms that perform mutual fund shareowner subaccounting. As the recordkeeping functions in connection with subaccounting are more limited than traditional shareowner accounting, the fees charged are generally lower on a per unit basis. Brokerage 24 Table of Contents firms that obtain agreements from our mutual fund clients to use an omnibus accounting structure cause accounts currently on our traditional recordkeeping system to convert to our subaccounting system, or to the subaccounting systems of other service providers, which could result in lower revenues. The demand for our products and services could decrease if we do not continually address our clients' technology and capacity requirements. Our clients use computer technology-based products and services in the complex and rapidly changing markets in which they operate. We must substantially invest in technology and systems to meet customer requirements for technology and capacity. If we do not meet clients' technology and capacity requirements in advance of our competitors or if the investments we make are not cost-effective or do not result in successful products or services, our businesses could be adversely affected. The quality or availability of postal system services could decrease, reducing the volume of printed customer communications and negatively impacting our business. The Company is dependent on postal delivery systems for final delivery of printed customer communications. Postal delivery systems are facing economic pressures from the reduction in first class mail and certain postal delivery systems have experienced work stoppages and other interruptions. Accuracy and speed of delivery are important factors for clients using printed communications in their businesses. Changes in the timeliness and quality of postal delivery could negatively impact the level of printed communications delivered by our customers to their clients. A decrease in such communications could lower our revenues. Decreased demand for traditional printed and mailed communications may adversely affect our business, depending on the extent to which our customers' and their clients' acceptance of electronic alternatives continues to grow. To the extent clients' customers select electronic presentment and delivery of communications, the demand for our services for production and distribution of printed documents will decrease. We provide electronic presentment and delivery solutions, but they are priced differently and require different capabilities than print-mail solutions. Customers may choose to perform electronic hosting and distribution of communications to customers internally or select electronic solution providers other than the Company. These events could result in lower revenues. Damage to our facilities or declining real estate values could impact our operations or financial condition. We own, lease and manage real estate as part of our business. The performance of our services also depends upon facilities that house central computer operations or operating centers or in which we process information, images, bills or statements. Declining property values in the markets in which we own investment properties may adversely affect our financial condition. Significant damage to any of our operating facilities could interrupt the operations at those facilities and interfere with our ability to serve customers. We may be unable to attract and retain capable technical personnel for our processing businesses or quality executives to manage the complex structure of our business. Our success depends on recruiting and retaining adept management and personnel with expertise in software and systems development and the types of computer hardware and software we utilize. An inability to hire or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Companies in our industry compete fiercely for qualified management and technical personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately compete for or keep qualified personnel. Lack of 25 Table of Contents qualified management could increase the risk of unfavorable business strategies, especially in a complex business like ours with multiple segments and operating entities. Lack of qualified technical personnel could also affect our ability to develop the systems and services our clients demand. Our businesses are subject to substantial competition. We are subject to intense competition from other established service providers in all industries we serve. Some of our competitors are able to bundle service offerings and offer more appealing pricing structures. Some of our clients, or the clients they serve, may develop, have developed or are developing the in-house capacity to perform the transaction processing, recordkeeping and output services they have paid us to perform. Some of our competitors and clients have greater financial and human resources and access to capital than we do. Our failure to successfully compete in any of our material operating businesses could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Competition could also affect the revenue mix of services we provide, resulting in decreased revenues in lines of business with higher profit margins. We and our unconsolidated affiliates are subject to government regulation. Any regulatory violations, changes or uncertainties could adversely affect our business. A number of our businesses are subject to U.S. or foreign regulation, including privacy, licensing, processing, recordkeeping, investment adviser, broker/dealer, reporting and related regulations. Any violation of applicable regulations could expose us or those businesses to significant fines or sanctions or damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance. Governmental changes and uncertainties surrounding services we provide could increase our costs of business or diminish business, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial results. Our clients are subject to government regulation that could affect our business. Our clients are subject to extensive government regulation, including investment adviser, broker/dealer and privacy regulations applicable to services we provide to the financial industry and insurance, privacy and other regulations applicable to services we provide to the healthcare industry. Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services. Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations. We operate internationally and are thus exposed to foreign political, economic and other conditions that could adversely affect our revenues from or support by foreign operations. Consolidated revenues from our subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and elsewhere outside the U.S. are an important element of our revenues. Inherent risks in our international business activities could decrease our international sales and have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. These risks include potentially unfavorable foreign economic conditions, political conditions or national priorities, foreign government regulation, potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments, the failure to bridge cultural differences, and limited or prohibited access to our foreign operations and the support they provide. We may also have difficulty repatriating profits or be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations in our international business. 26 Table of Contents Various events may cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter or year to year. The nature of these events might inhibit our ability to anticipate and act in advance to counter them. We may be unsuccessful in determining or controlling when and whether events occur that could cause varying financial results. Unfavorable results may occur that we did not anticipate or take advance action to address. The various reasons our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate include unanticipated economic conditions, and costs for starting up significant client operations, for hiring staff, and for developing products. Our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of supplies, timing of license fees, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our products and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors' new products or services. Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on those investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments. As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds. Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances. Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues. The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss. Our revenues and profit margins could decrease if client contracts are terminated or fail to renew or if clients renegotiate contracts or utilize our services at lower than anticipated levels. We derive most of our revenue by selling products and services under long-term contracts, many of which contain terms and conditions based on anticipated levels of utilization of our services. We cannot unilaterally extend the terms of our client contracts when they expire. Contracts can terminate during the term of agreement for various reasons, including through "termination for convenience" clauses in some contracts that enable clients to cancel by written notice. Our revenues and profit could decrease as a result of terminations or non-renewals of client contracts; extensions of client contracts under, or contract re-negotiations resulting in, less favorable terms; or utilization of services at less than anticipated levels. Claims against us, including claims for the lost market value of securities and class action claims, could cause significant liability and damage our reputation and business prospects. Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs. The dollar amount of transactions processed is vastly higher than the revenues derived from providing these services. Transaction processing or operational errors, or process mismanagement, could cause, among other potential issues, processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, failure to follow a client's instructions or meet specifications, failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients' agent or consultant, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, or fraud committed by third parties. We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement. Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue. Litigation could include class action claims based, among other theories, upon various regulatory 27 Table of Contents requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action. Any of these claims and related settlements or judgments could affect our profitability, damage our reputation, decrease demand for our services, or cause us to make costly operating changes. We are substantially dependent on our intellectual property rights, and a claim for infringement or a requirement to indemnify a client for infringement could adversely affect us. We have made substantial investments in software and other intellectual property on which our business is highly dependent. Any loss of our intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights of others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We rely on patent, trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and security measures to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot guarantee these measures will be effective. Our products and services rely on technology developed by others, including open source software, and we have no control over possible infringement of someone else's intellectual property rights by the provider of this technology. The owner of the rights could seek damages from us rather than or in addition to the persons who provide the technology to us. We could be subject at any time to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to evaluate and defend. Our clients may also face infringement claims, allege that such claims relate to our products and services, and seek indemnification from us. Failure to protect our confidential information and that of our clients, their customers, and our employees could hurt our business. We electronically maintain trade secrets and proprietary or sensitive information, including financial, personal health and other information of our clients, their customers and our employees. In certain circumstances, vendors have access to such information in order to assist us with responsibilities such as, producing benefit plan identification cards, maintaining software we license on our own behalf or resell to others, or helping clients comply with anti-money laundering regulations. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could cause us to receive significant claims for liability or to incur significant costs for notices required by law to be sent to affected individuals. It could also cause our customers to reconsider using our services and products, damage our reputation, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain systems and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to electronic information and cybersecurity attacks, and we generally impose security requirements on our vendors, but we cannot guarantee these systems, procedures or requirements will always protect us. Rapid advances in technology may prevent us from anticipating all potential security threats or promptly identifying all security breaches, and the limits and costs of technology, skills and manpower could prevent us from adequately addressing these threats. We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership. We invest in joint ventures and other unconsolidated affiliates as part of our business strategy, and part of our net income is derived from our pro rata share of the earnings of those businesses. Despite owning significant equity interests in those companies and having directors on their boards, we do not control their operations, strategies or financial decisions. The other owners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the businesses we co-own. Our pro rata share of any losses due to unfavorable performance of those companies could negatively impact our financial statements. 28 Table of Contents Some of our joint venture investments are subject to buy-sell agreements, which may, among other things, restrict us from selling our interests even if we were to determine it is prudent to do so. We own interests in unconsolidated entities including Boston Financial Data Services, International Financial Data Services Limited Partnership, International Financial Data Services Limited, and various real estate joint ventures. Our interests in such unconsolidated entities are subject to buy/sell arrangements, which may restrict our ability to sell our interests even if we were to determine it is prudent to do so. These arrangements may also allow us to purchase the other owners' interests to prevent someone else from acquiring them and we cannot control the timing of occasions to do so. The businesses or other owners may encourage us to increase our investment in or make contributions to the businesses at an inopportune time. The financial results of our reinsurance subsidiary could be adversely affected if actual loss experience exceeds estimated loss experience. Our subsidiary, Vermont Western Assurance, Inc., which we refer to as Vermont Western, reinsures a portion of the risk in connection with replacing lost stock certificates for registered shareholders of unrelated companies. Vermont Western utilizes underwriting procedures and actuarial advisors to assess risk and establish reserves against loss. Vermont Western does not control clients' loss experience. Vermont Western could inaccurately assess risk at any time and actual loss experience could exceed estimates. Vermont Western's results, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results or cash flow. We hold equity investments in companies that operate in various industries, and the value of those investments could decrease. We hold significant investments in available-for-sale equity securities of other companies or other financial interests that are subject to fluctuations in market prices. A significant decline in the value of our equity investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may not always be able to sell those investments at higher prices than we paid for them or than the value of the consideration used to acquire them. We hold significant investments in illiquid private equity funds. We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments. These investments are illiquid. Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities. Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so. Various plans, agreements, laws and organizational documents may have anti-takeover effects. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain plans and agreements, and applicable laws could make it more difficult for a party to make a tender offer for our shares or complete a takeover, which is not approved by our Board of Directors. The provisions include: •super-majority stockholder approval required for certain actions •staggered terms for directors •specific procedures for stockholders to nominate new directors •the Board's authority to issue and set the terms of preferred stock 29 Table of Contents •a stockholders' rights plan that would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (as determined pursuant to the rights plan) without the approval of our Board of Directors •various rights of debenture holders, joint venture co-owners, lenders and certain customers and executives in the event of a change in control •public reporting of ownership and of changes in ownership by stockholders with at least a 5% interest in us •legal restrictions on business combinations with certain stockholders Because of contractual commitments, a change in control could affect our operating results and weaken our management retention and incentive tools. A change in control of the Company would trigger various rights and obligations in service agreements with our customers and in agreements governing our joint ventures. A change in control could also allow some clients to terminate their agreements with us or to obtain rights to use our processing software. We are parties to joint venture agreements that allow other co-owners to buy our equity interests if we undergo a change in control. Under certain executive equity-based and other incentive compensation awards, benefit programs and employment agreements with our management, a change in control by itself, or an individual's termination of employment without "cause" or resignation for "good reason" (each as defined in applicable agreements) after a change in control could accelerate funding, payment or vesting, as applicable, under such agreements and programs. This accelerated funding, vesting or payment may decrease an employee's incentive to continue employment with us. Certain executive officers have agreements with us that require us to continue to employ them for three years after a change in control or to pay certain amounts if we terminate their employment without cause or they resign for good reason following a change in control. The executives might not be incented to achieve desired results for the new owners of our business, and the cost of keeping the executives on the payroll might deter potential new owners from acquiring us or hinder new owners from hiring replacement management. Certain changes in ownership of the Company could potentially affect the continuation of investment advisory and distribution services provided by ALPS subsidiaries, which could potentially limit the Company's share repurchases and negatively impact the Company's financial results. The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, ALPS Holdings, Inc., has subsidiaries that serve as investment advisors or distributors for certain registered investment companies ("Funds"). If more than 25% of the Company's outstanding voting securities were to become held by a single owner, a change of control of the ALPS subsidiaries constituting an assignment of their investment advisory contracts and distribution contracts could be deemed to have occurred. Any deemed assignment would automatically terminate the ALPS subsidiaries' investment advisory and distribution contracts with the Funds, and the Funds would be required to seek shareowner approval of new investment advisory contracts in order to continue an advisory relationship with the ALPS subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that any Fund with a distribution contract would retain the ALPS subsidiary as its distributor or that any Fund with an investment advisory contract would obtain the required shareowner vote to retain, or that it would retain, the ALPS subsidiary as its investment advisor. The potential impact of a deemed assignment may limit the Company's ability to repurchase its shares. The loss by ALPS subsidiaries of investment advisory and/or distribution contracts could negatively impact the financial condition and earnings of the Company. 30 Table of Contents Our equity incentive and stockholders' rights plans could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Our directors, officers and certain managers have received restricted stock units and options to purchase our common stock as part of their compensation. These equity grants could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. The rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (as determined pursuant to the rights plan) without the approval of our Board of Directors. A triggering of the rights plan could in some circumstances be dilutive in value to common stockholders who do not exercise their rights. Conversion or settlement of our debentures could have a dilutive effect on our common stock or affect our liquidity. The Company has issued convertible senior debentures. Issuing common stock to settle conversions could be dilutive to the price of our common stock, and settlement of debentures for cash could affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The debentures are convertible into shares of common stock under specified circumstances, which we refer to as Conversion Triggers. We cannot accurately predict when certain Conversion Triggers outside of our control may occur. To satisfy a conversion notice subsequent to a Conversion Trigger, we must deliver our common stock unless we properly notify the holder that we will settle with cash or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. A conversion notice settled with shares will cause additional dilution to existing common shareholders, while a conversion notice settled in cash may require the Company to access credit markets or sell its investments. We may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. In 2010, we began paying cash dividends on our common stock. Future cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. If we cannot successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, our growth may be limited and our financial condition adversely affected. Our business strategy anticipates that we will supplement internal growth by pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable businesses to acquire. We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of other complementary businesses. If we cannot complete acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. Information we obtain about an acquisition target may be limited and there can be no assurance that an acquisition will perform as expected or positively impact our financial performance. Potential acquisitions involve risk, including the risk we would be unable to effectively integrate the acquired technologies, operations and personnel into our business, and the risk that management's attention and our capital would be diverted from other areas of our business. If our new investments and business initiatives are not successful, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We are investing heavily in our products for the brokerage and retirement industries. Our investments may not lead to successful deployment of our new products and increases in the level of volumes of certain businesses. If we are not successful in creating value from our investments, the lack of new product sales could have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 