Item 1A. Risk Factors Community’s financial results are subject to a number of risks. The factors discussed below will highlight risks that management believes are most relevant to Community’s current operating environment. The list does not capture all risks associated with Community’s business. Additional risks, including those generally affecting the banking industry and those that management currently deems immaterial may also negatively impact Community’s liquidity, financial position or results of operations. When reviewing Community’s financial results, you should consider the following risk factors along with the other information contained in this document. You should keep these risk factors in mind when you read forward-looking statements in this document. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” included in Part I, Item 7. Community may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of the PennRock merger. Management’s anticipated expense savings to be realized from the merger, expected to be derived from the reconfiguration of duplicate internal operations and administrative functions, the elimination of redundant external contractual services and from the convergence and standardization of various retirement, bonus, and incentive programs in the first full year of operations after the merger, may not be fully realized or may take longer than estimated to be realized and have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. 7 Future loan losses may exceed Community’s allowance for loan losses. Community is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in our market areas or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. This deterioration in economic conditions could result in losses to Community in excess of loan loss allowances. To the extent loans are not paid timely, the loans are placed on non-accrual, thereby reducing interest income. To the extent loan charge-offs exceed our estimates, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce income. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce Community’s net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of Community’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Community’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. Community’s profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in its local markets. Community’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in its local markets in central Pennsylvania and northern Maryland. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for Community’s products and services as well as the ability of Community’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of Community’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. The financial services industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. Supervision and Regulation Community is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations governing the banking industry, in particular, and public companies, in general. Changes in those laws and regulations, or the degree of Community’s compliance with those laws and regulations as judged by any of several regulators that oversee Community, could have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. Community’s stock price can be volatile. The market price of Community common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, including changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 