Item 1A. Risk Factors Community’s operations and financial results are subject to any number of both internal and external risk factors. This presentation will serve to highlight those risks that management believes are most relevant to Community’s current operating environment. The list is not exhaustive and may not capture all risks associated with Community’s business. Community is subject to a broad array of risks that affect the overall health of the economy and the banking industry as a whole. Consequently, there may be unidentified risks not discussed herein that have the potential to negatively impact Community’s liquidity, financial position or results of operations. The presentation of risk factors should be read in conjunction with Community’s financial results presented in Part II, Item 7. The following risk factors should also be considered along with the other information concerning risk that is contained in this document. Risk factors contained herein have particular relevance when read in connection with any forward-looking statement presented throughout this Form 10-K. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” included in Part II, Item 7. Future loan losses may exceed Community’s allowance for loan losses. Credit risk is, perhaps, the single most significant risk to a community bank. Community is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in our market areas or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. This deterioration in economic conditions could result in losses to Community in excess of loan loss allowances. To the extent loans are not paid timely, the loans are placed on non-accrual, thereby reducing interest income. To the extent loan charge-offs exceed our estimates, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce income. 10 Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce Community’s net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, comprise the major source of revenue for Community. Interest rates are key drivers of net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. For most of 2006, the banking industry experienced the impact of a “flat” or “inverted” yield curve, which significantly hampered efforts to expand net interest income in the second half of the year. The shape of the yield curve influences the interest rates that can be charged on loans or paid on deposits. The prolonged presence of a flat or inverted yield curve could significantly impact the potential for sustaining or improving net interest income in ensuing years or until the yield curve returns to a more normal position. Additionally, unexpected increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. The interest rate environment and the shape of the yield curve took on increased importance for the banking industry in 2006 and beyond. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Community’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, or prolonged deviations in market interest rates could have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. For a more complete description of the risks associated with interest rates and changes in rates, please refer to the section entitled “Net Interest Income” of Part II, Item 7. Community’s profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in its local markets. Community’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in its local markets of central Pennsylvania and northern Maryland. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for Community’s products and services as well as the ability of Community’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of Community’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. The financial services industry is very competitive Community faces competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout its market area. Competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors are national in scope and have substantially greater resources with which to service their customers. Supervision, Regulation and Compliance Community is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations governing the banking industry, in particular, and public companies, in general. Changes in those laws and regulations, or the degree of Community’s compliance with those laws and regulations as judged by any of several regulators that oversee Community, could have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. Acquisitions Over the last several years, the Corporation has entered into a number of mergers or acquisitions of both banks and other financial services companies. In connection with these transactions, estimates and assumptions were used to assess whether expense savings and other synergies could be realized from the merger and were considered in the determination of the acquisition price. The Corporation’s single largest merger was its acquisition of PennRock 11 Financial Services Corp. and its primary subsidiary, Blue Ball National Bank (Blue Ball) on July 1, 2005. Additionally, Community currently has pending mergers of two smaller financial institutions that are expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007. The success of these mergers, and all future mergers, is largely dependent on the level of efficiencies gained from a number of standard initiatives, including: the reconfiguration of duplicate internal operations; the removal of certain administrative functions; the elimination of redundant external contractual services and; the convergence and standardization of various retirement, bonus, and incentive programs. Each transaction includes risks that these expected savings, efficiencies, or synergies will not be fully realized or may take longer than estimated to be realized and could have a significant effect on Community’s operations and its financial results. Furthermore, a failure to realize these efficiencies, expense savings and other synergies in any single merger transaction may affect Community’s ability to acquire complementary businesses in future periods and, consequently, could seriously impact its ability to expand its franchise through acquisitions. Goodwill Impairment Current accounting standards require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the consideration exchanged in the acquisition of a company exceeds the fair market value of the net identifiable assets of that company, the excess amount must be reflected on the records of the acquirer as goodwill. At the end of 2006, Community had recorded approximately $246 million of goodwill, the majority of which was recognized in connection with the merger of PennRock. Under purchase accounting, the Corporation is required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. Recognition of any impairment in the carrying amount of goodwill must be included in the results of operations in the period in which a determination of impairment has been made. Based upon its most recent analysis, management has determined that the carrying amount of goodwill has not been impaired as of December 31, 2006. The carrying amount of goodwill will continue to be analyzed in subsequent periods and there is no assurance that goodwill or some portion thereof will not be considered impaired pursuant to an evaluation conducted at a future date. Ability to Pay Dividends Community’s ability to pay dividends depends, to a large extent, on its receipt of dividends from its direct or indirect subsidiaries. Currently, the Corporation’s primary source of dividends for distribution to shareholders is dependent upon the receipt of dividends from its primary banking subsidiary, CommunityBanks. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation is subject to its profitability, financial condition, and other cash flow requirements. There is no absolute assurance that the Bank or any of the other subsidiaries of the Corporation will be able to pay dividends in the future or that the Corporation will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. Community’s failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its stock. Community’s stock price can be volatile. The market price of Community common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, including changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 