ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces a variety of risks that are inherent in its business, including interest rate, credit, liquidity, capital, price/market, transaction/operation, compliance/legal, strategic and reputation. Following is a discussion of these risk factors. While the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or other factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the mere existence of risk is not necessarily reason for concern. However, the following risks could cause actual results to materially differ from those discussed in any forward-looking statement. There is substantial doubt about AMCORE’s ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, significant operating losses in 2008 and 2009, significant levels of criticized assets and low levels of capital raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s Board of Directors continues to actively pursue strategic alternatives. The Company can give no assurance that AMCORE will identify an alternative that allows its stockholders to realize an increase in the value of the Company’s stock. The Company also can give no assurance that a transaction or other strategic alternative, once identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to its stockholders than that reflected in the current stock price. In addition, a transaction, which would likely involve equity financing, would result in substantial dilution to its current stockholders and could adversely affect the price of AMCORE’s common stock. The Company and the Bank are subject to Regulatory Agreements and Orders that restrict the Company from taking certain actions. On May 15, 2008, the Bank entered into the OCC Agreement with the OCC. The OCC Agreement described commitments made by the Bank to address and strengthen banking practices relating to asset quality and the overall administration of the credit function at the Bank. The Company entered into a written agreement (the “FRB Agreement”) with the FRB dated June 26, 2009, and on June 25, 2009, the Bank agreed to the issuance of a consent order (the “Consent Order”) by the OCC. In general, the FRB Agreement and the Consent Order contained requirements to develop plans to raise capital and to revise and maintain a liquidity risk management program. By letter dated November 4, 2009 (the “Letter”), the OCC notified the Bank of its finding that the capital plan submitted pursuant to the Consent Order (the “Capital Plan”) was “not acceptable”, stating that the OCC was unable to determine that the Capital Plan “was likely to succeed in restoring the Bank’s capital at this time.” The OCC further advised the Bank that it was being treated as “significantly undercapitalized” within the meaning of the prompt corrective action (the “PCA”) provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and implementing OCC regulations. The Bank was required to submit a capital restoration plan and a disposition plan pursuant to the Letter. On November 6, 2009, the FRB notified the Company in writing that the Company’s capital plan submitted under the terms of the FRB Agreement was unacceptable in addressing the capital erosion of the Company and the Bank. For further information regarding the requirements and limitations of the OCC Agreement, the FRB Agreement, the Consent Order and the Letter, see Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Further, the Bank was unable to meet the regulatory capital maintenance requirements of the Consent Order by the required September 30, 2009 date. As a result of the OCC Agreement, as well as the FRB Agreement, the Consent Order and the Letter, the Company was ineligible for certain actions and expedited approvals without the prior written consent and approval of the applicable regulatory agency. These actions include, among other things, the appointment of directors and senior executives, making or agreeing to make certain payments to executives or directors, business combinations and branching. 10 Table of Contents In consultation with its professional advisors, the Bank resubmitted a combined CRP and Disposition Plan by the required December 4, 2009 due date. By return letter dated January 8, 2010 (the “Response Letter”), the OCC notified the Bank that its CRP was not acceptable. According to the OCC, the CRP was not accepted because, among other things, it did not meet the statutory requirements that the CRP be based on “realistic assumptions” and be likely to succeed in restoring the Bank’s capital. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FRB notified the Company that the Company’s capital plan previously submitted to the FRB continued to be unacceptable in addressing the capital erosion of the Company and the Bank. The Response Letter provided that even if the Bank’s capital ratios improve to the undercapitalized category, the Bank would continue to be subject to operational restrictions applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions until such time as the Bank has submitted to the OCC an acceptable CRP. The OCC also stated its view that the recently announced asset sales by the Bank have increased the overall risk to the Bank’s capital base. The Company and the Bank continue to diligently work with their financial and professional advisors in seeking qualified sources of outside capital, and in achieving compliance with the requirements of the Consent Order, the FRB Agreement, the Letter and the Response Letter. The Company and the Bank continue to consult with the OCC, FRB and FDIC on a regular basis concerning the Company’s and Bank’s proposals to obtain outside capital and to develop action plans that will be acceptable to federal regulatory authorities, but there can be no assurance that these actions will be successful, or that even if one or more of the Company’s and Bank’s proposals are accepted by the Company’s and Bank’s Federal regulators, that these proposals will be successfully implemented. While Company’s management continues to exert maximum effort to attract new capital, significant operating losses in 2008 and 2009, significant levels of criticized assets and low levels of capital raise substantial doubt as to Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern was previously disclosed in the Company’s December 31, 2009 earnings release furnished with its February 2, 2010 Form 8-K, Current Report. If the Company is unable to achieve compliance with the requirements of the Consent Order, the FRB Agreement, the Letter and the Response Letter with the OCC and the FRB, or an acceptable CRP under the OCC’s Prompt Corrective Action guidelines, and if the Company cannot otherwise comply with such commitments and regulations, the OCC could force a sale, liquidation or federal conservatorship or receivership of the Bank. The Bank may be subject to a federal conservatorship or receivership if it cannot comply with the Consent Order, the FRB Agreement, the Letter, the Response Letter, or if its condition continues to deteriorate. As noted above, the Consent Order requires the Bank to create and implement a capital plan. The Bank has twice submitted capital restoration plans that have been rejected by the OCC and there is no assurance it will be able to submit an acceptable plan. Moreover, the condition of the Bank’s loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the current economic environment and thus continue to deplete the Bank’s capital and other financial resources. Therefore, should the Bank fail to implement an acceptable CRP and comply with its terms, or fail to comply with capital and liquidity funding requirements, or suffer a continued deterioration in its financial condition, the Bank may be subject to being placed into a federal conservatorship or receivership by the OCC, with the FDIC appointed as conservator or receiver. If these events occur, AMCORE probably would suffer a complete loss of the value of its ownership interest in the Bank, and the Company subsequently may be exposed to significant claims by the FDIC and the OCC. See Regulatory Developments, under Item 1. The Company is exposed to the risk that third parties that owe it money, securities, or other assets will not perform their obligations. Credit risk arises anytime the Company extends, commits, invests, or otherwise exposes Company funds through contractual agreements, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. These parties may default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Credit risk includes the risk that the Company’s rights against third parties (including guarantors) may not be enforceable or realizable in all circumstances. 11 Table of Contents The Company’s credit risk is concentrated in its loan portfolio (including commitments) and its investment portfolio. The Company also has credit risk through other financial instruments including derivative contracts and Company owned life insurance policies. Credit risk is affected by a variety of factors including the credit-worthiness of the borrower or other party, the sufficiency of underlying collateral, the enforceability of third-party guarantees, errors in underwriting, changing economic and industry conditions and concentrations of credit by loan type, terms or geographic area, changes in the financial condition of the borrower or other party, and by credit and underwriting policies. In addition to the risk of loss of principal associated with the loan portfolio, profitability is adversely affected by non-performing loans, which include non-accrual loans and loans past due 90 days or more. Credit risk in the Bank’s portfolio is high due to a concentration in commercial real estate loans with significant deterioration in asset quality and collateral values. The value of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land development loans, commercial loans and multi-family loans have declined and may continue to decline. Extensions of credit for these types of loans has generally ceased, and AMCORE is working actively to manage its remaining construction and development and commercial real estate loan portfolios. However, AMCORE could experience further delinquencies and credit losses in these challenging economic times, if current trends in housing and real estate markets continue to deteriorate, and if efforts to limit losses through workouts of bad loans are unsuccessful. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore there is a risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed the allowance for loan losses or that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will otherwise be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause results of operations to decline in the period(s) in which such additions occur and could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s capital and financial position. For further information regarding provisions for loan losses, concentrations, credit losses, and non-performing loans, see the discussion of provision for loan losses, and the Asset Quality Review and Credit Risk Management section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income. The Company, like most financial institutions, is subject to interest-rate risk on the interest-earning assets in which it invests (primarily loans and securities) and the interest-bearing liabilities with which it funds (primarily customer deposits, brokered deposits and borrowed funds). This includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change to the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions, the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and competition. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest that the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of loans and securities which are collateralized by mortgages. Earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected by interest rate changes. 12 Table of Contents The Company has experienced steady declines in its capital levels as credit losses have risen. Maintaining sufficient capital serves as a buffer against potential credit and other losses that the Company may encounter during difficult times. There are five levels of capital defined by regulation: “well-capitalized”, “adequately capitalized”, “undercapitalized”, “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”. The OCC has advised the Bank that it is being treated as “significantly undercapitalized”. Capital risk includes the potential effect on the Company’s reputation as well as certain other potential consequences should the capital level fall below well-capitalized. As a result of the Bank being “significantly undercapitalized”, the Bank is currently experiencing changes in the Bank’s borrowing costs and terms from regulatory authorities and other third parties, the Bank’s FDIC deposit insurance premiums, and AMCORE’s ability to access brokered CD markets. The Company’s capital has declined due to recent credit losses. The Company lost $98 million during the year ended December 31, 2008 and lost $224 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. While it expects to be able to generate profits at some point in the future, there can be no assurance of when, or if, it will return to profitability. Given recent losses, asset quality issues, and overall financial condition, the Company must raise additional capital to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to comply with regulatory requirements and to meet its commitments and business needs. AMCORE may not be able to raise the necessary capital on favorable terms, or at all. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations pending sale, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt when due or called, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures, among other things. Liquidity is derived primarily from bank-issued deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments from investment securities, sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. The Company’s liquidity can be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, market disruption, operational problems affecting third parties or the Company, unfavorable pricing, competition, the Company’s credit rating and regulatory restrictions applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank was considered “significantly undercapitalized” under applicable regulatory guidelines. As a result of this designation, the Bank is no longer eligible to participate in the brokered CD market and is also subject to limitations with respect to interest rates it can offer on deposits, generally limited to rates equal to no more than 75 basis points above prevailing market rates. These limitations, as well as recent increased collateral requirements and advance limitations with respect to other funding sources, may have a material impact on the Bank’s deposit levels and liquidity. In particular, the inability to accept, renew, or roll over brokered deposits could put a severe strain on the Bank’s liquidity because of the limited ability to replace maturing brokered deposits with core deposits. Current market developments may adversely affect AMCORE’s industry, business, financial condition and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. Reflecting concern about 13 Table of Contents the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For example: • Market developments may affect borrower confidence levels, behaviors and financial condition, which could impact their borrowing and payment activities, and the Company’s ability to assess creditworthiness, which could impact lending activities, charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • Estimates of inherent losses in the loan portfolio rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • The ability to borrow from other financial institutions or other funding transactions could be adversely affected. • AMCORE may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) premiums due to depletion of the insurance fund, and a reduction of the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Increased regulation in the financial services industry, including as a result of the ESA, could increase compliance costs and challenges, and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • Industry competition could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for over two years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that AMCORE will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. AMCORE’s deposit insurance premiums have increased which could have a material adverse effect on future earnings. Due to the impact on the FDIC insurance fund resulting from the recent increase in bank failures, the FDIC raised its insurance premiums and levied special assessments on all financial institutions. In addition, the FDIC uses a risk-based premium system that assesses higher rates on those institutions that pose greater risks to the deposit insurance fund. The FDIC places all financial institutions into one of four risk categories using a two-step process based first on the respective institution’s capital ratios and then on the CAMELS composite supervisory rating assigned to the institution by its primary federal regulator in connection with its periodic regulatory examinations. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank is “significantly undercapitalized” under regulatory guidelines. Due to the “significantly undercapitalized” status of the Bank and other factors indicating higher risk, the FDIC will charge the Bank a higher premium for deposit insurance. The combination of the general increase in FDIC insurance rates and higher FDIC insurance rates resulting from the classification of the Bank in a higher risk category will have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. At this time, the Company is unable to predict the impact in future periods in the event the economic crisis continues or the Bank continues to be deemed “significantly undercapitalized”. 14 Table of Contents The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal banking authorities. Changes in applicable regulations or legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In that regard, proposals for legislation restructuring the regulation of the financial services industry are currently under consideration. Adoption of such proposals could, among other things, increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. These powers recently have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions that the Company and other financial institutions are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. AMCORE cannot predict the actual effects on the Company of various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives, which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect AMCORE’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of its common stock. In addition, failure or the inability to comply with these various requirements can lead to diminished reputation and investor confidence, reduced franchise value, loss of business, curtailment of expansion opportunities, fines and penalties, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. For further information, refer to discussion in Key Initiatives, Other Significant Items and Events section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Company controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Transaction/operation risk is a function of internal controls, information systems, employee integrity and operating processes. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal processes, controls, staff or systems could lead to impairment of liquidity, financial loss, disruption of the business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to the Company’s reputation. For example, the Company is highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. Failure of financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and controls to operate properly, becoming disabled, or to keep pace with increasing volumes, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to capture, process and accurately report these transactions. The Company may fail to meet continued listing requirements with NASDAQ. The Company’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As a NASDAQ Global Select Market listed company, AMCORE is required to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Market Place Rules to maintain its listing status which includes maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least a $1.00 per share for common stock. During 2009, the Company’s common stock traded below the minimum closing bid price requirement under the NASDAQ Market Place Rules. The Company was notified by NASDAQ on December 9, 2009 of its non-compliance with listing standards. After regaining compliance on January 4, 2010, the Company once again was notified of non-compliance on March 8, 2010. The notification requires compliance with the NASDAQ continued listing requirements within 180 days. If the Company is unable to regain compliance, the common stock would be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Delisting could reduce the ability of investors to purchase or sell AMCORE’s common stock as quickly and as inexpensively as they have done historically. 15 Table of Contents Not maintaining a listing on a major stock market or exchange may result in a material decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock due to a decrease in liquidity and reduced interest by institutions and individuals in investing in the securities. Delisting could also make it more difficult to raise capital in the future. Poor business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions could results in adverse consequences to the Company. Identifying and defining goals for the continued growth and success of the Company, developing strategies to accomplish the goals, and acquiring, developing and retaining the physical resources and human capital necessary to successfully execute the strategies are critical to the Company’s success. Presently, the Company has four primary strategic initiatives: credit risk management, cost efficiencies, capital and liquidity, and broadening customer relationships. The Company’s ability to successfully execute these initiatives depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities and locations, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in its new market areas, the stability of the Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio, and the ability to manage client relationships across all of its business segments. For an expanded discussion on these initiatives, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Loss of or damage to the Company’s reputation may affect ongoing profitability. Reputation risk arises from the possibility that negative publicity regarding the Company’s business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in its customer base or result in costly litigation. In a service industry, such as the financial services industry, where product choices between companies are not always clearly distinguishable and which in many cases are interchangeable, a company’s reputation for honesty, fair-dealing and good corporate governance may be one of its most important assets. Loss of or damage to that reputation can have severe consequences. Capital raising activities could dilute the percentage ownership of existing AMCORE shareholders. The Company is taking all appropriate actions, including pursuing capital raising activities in order to increase capital and otherwise comply with the requirements set forth in the FRB Agreement and Consent Order. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in those efforts. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the percentage ownership of existing holders of AMCORE’s outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect AMCORE. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose AMCORE to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty or client. In addition, AMCORE’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by it cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, investment or derivative exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect AMCORE’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the value of financial instruments could adversely affect the Company’s earnings or capital. Price/market risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from adverse changes in the value of financial instruments. While this includes credit and liquidity risk, the Company considers interest-rate risk to be its most significant market risk. When interest rates increase, the fair value of a financial instrument on the asset side of the balance sheet will decrease. Conversely, when rates decline the fair value of the same instrument will increase. 16 Table of Contents While this relationship applies to all fixed-rate financial instruments, the primary instruments whose carrying values are affected by price/market risk are traded instruments. Since the Company currently has only an available-for-sale portfolio and does not maintain investment securities in a trading account, market fluctuations are recorded through equity and not the statements of operations. On-going adverse fair values could cause some security fair values to deteriorate to the extent that they are considered to be other than temporary. At that time, the Company would be required to write-down security values to their fair value as a charge to earnings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 