ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces a variety of risks that are inherent in its business, including interest rate, credit, liquidity, capital, price/market, transaction/operation, compliance/legal, strategic and reputation. Following is a discussion of these risk factors. While the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or other factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the mere existence of risk is not necessarily reason for concern. However, the following risks could cause actual results to materially differ from those discussed in any forward-looking statement. Interest Rate Risk As part of its normal operations, the Company, like most financial institutions, is subject to interest-rate risk on the interest-earning assets in which it invests (primarily loans and securities) and the interest-bearing liabilities with which it funds (primarily customer deposits, brokered deposits and borrowed funds). This includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change to the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions, the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and competition. These factors may cause fluctuations in interest rates that adversely affect the fair market values of the Company’s financial instruments, cash flows, and net income. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to the risk that third parties that owe it money, securities, or other assets will not perform their obligations. Credit risk arises anytime the Company extends, commits, invests, or otherwise exposes Company funds through contractual agreements, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. These parties may default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Credit risk includes the risk that the Company’s rights against third parties (including guarantors) may not be enforceable or realizable in all circumstances. The Company’s credit risk is concentrated in its loan portfolio (including commitments) and its investment portfolio. The Company also has credit risk through other financial instruments including derivative contracts and Company owned life insurance policies. Credit risk is affected by a variety of factors including the credit-worthiness of the borrower or other party, the sufficiency of underlying collateral, the enforceability of third-party guarantees, errors in underwriting, changing economic and industry conditions and concentrations of credit by loan type, terms or geographic area, changes in the financial condition of the borrower or other party, and by credit and underwriting policies. Due to declining economic conditions and the Bank’s concentration in commercial real estate loans, credit risk in the Bank’s portfolio is high, with significant deterioration in asset quality and collateral values. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations pending sale, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt when due or called, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital 9 Table of Contents expenditures, among other things. Liquidity is derived primarily from bank-issued deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments from investment securities, sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. The Company’s liquidity can be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, market disruption, operational problems affecting third parties or the Company, unfavorable pricing, competition, the Company’s credit rating and regulatory restrictions applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. Capital Risk Maintaining sufficient capital serves as a buffer against potential credit and other losses that the Company may encounter during difficult times. There are five levels of capital defined by regulation: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. AMCORE, like many financial institutions has historically maintained capital at or above the well-capitalized minimum. Also, like many financial institutions this year, AMCORE has experienced steady declines in its capital levels as credit losses have risen. Capital risk includes the potential effect on the Company’s reputation as well as certain other potential consequences should the capital level fall below well-capitalized. These consequences could include, among other things, changes in the Company’s borrowing costs and terms from regulatory authorities and other third parties, the Bank’s FDIC deposit insurance premiums, and AMCORE’s ability to access the brokered CD markets. Price/Market Risk Price/market risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from adverse changes in the value of financial instruments. While this includes credit and liquidity risk, the Company considers interest-rate risk to be its most significant market risk. When interest rates increase, the fair value of a financial instrument on the asset side of the balance sheet will decrease. Conversely, when rates decline the fair value of the same instrument will increase. While this relationship applies to all fixed-rate financial instruments, the primary instruments whose carrying values are affected by price/market risk are traded instruments. Since the Company currently has only an available-for-sale portfolio and does not maintain investment securities in a trading account, market fluctuations are recorded through equity and not the statements of operations. On-going adverse fair values could cause some security fair values to deteriorate to the extent that they are considered to be other than temporary. At that time, the Company would be required to write-down security values to their fair value as a charge to earnings. Transaction/Operation Risk Transaction/operation risk is a function of internal controls, information systems, employee integrity and operating processes. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal processes, controls, staff or systems could lead to impairment of liquidity, financial loss, disruption of the business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to the Company’s reputation. For example, the Company is highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. Failure of financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and controls to operate properly, becoming disabled, or to keep pace with increasing volumes, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to capture, process and accurately report these transactions. Compliance/Legal Risk The Company is subject to compliance with an expanding body of regulatory, supervisory and examination requirements including capital adequacy, safety/soundness, customer privacy, anti-money laundering, truth-in-savings/lending and financial reporting, to name a few. Failure or the inability to comply with these 10 Table of Contents various requirements can lead to diminished reputation and investor confidence, reduced franchise value, loss of business, curtailment of expansion opportunities, fines and penalties, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. Refer to discussion included in Key Initiatives and Other Significant Items and Events in Item 7 for a summary of recent regulatory developments. Strategic Risk Strategic risk is the potential for adverse consequences to the Company of poor business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions. It includes identifying and defining goals for the continued growth and success of the Company, developing strategies to accomplish the goals, and acquiring, developing and retaining the physical resources and human capital necessary to successfully execute the strategies. Presently, the Company has four primary strategic initiatives: credit quality, cost efficiencies, capital and liquidity, and broadening customer relationships. The Company’s ability to successfully execute these initiatives depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities and locations, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in its new market areas, the stability of the Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio, and the ability to manage client relationships across all four of its business segments. For an expanded discussion on these initiatives, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Reputation Risk Reputation risk arises from the possibility that negative publicity regarding the Company’s business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in its customer base or result in costly litigation. In a service industry, such as the financial services industry, where product choices between companies are not always clearly distinguishable and which in many cases are interchangeable, a company’s reputation for honesty, fair-dealing and good corporate governance may be one of its most important assets. Loss of or damage to that reputation can have severe consequences. Additional Risk Factors There can be no assurance that the recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “ESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the ESA will have on the Company, or on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the ESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of its common stock. Changes to the plan are presently under consideration by the new administration that may add to or change these provisions. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, 11 Table of Contents there can be no assurance that AMCORE will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Current market developments may adversely affect AMCORE’s industry, business, financial condition and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For example: • Market developments may affect borrower confidence levels, behaviors and financial condition, which could impact their borrowing and payment activities, and the Company’s ability to assess creditworthiness, which could impact lending activities, charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • Estimates of inherent losses in the loan portfolio rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • The ability to borrow from other financial institutions or other funding transactions could be adversely affected. • AMCORE may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) premiums due to depletion of the insurance fund, and a reduction of the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Increased regulation in the financial services industry, including as a result of the ESA, could increase compliance costs and challenges, and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. • Industry competition could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect AMCORE. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose AMCORE to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty or client. In addition, AMCORE’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by it cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, investment or derivative exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect AMCORE’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 