ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces a variety of risks that are inherent in its business, including interest rate, credit, liquidity, price/market, transaction/operation, compliance/legal, strategic and reputation. Following is a discussion of these risk factors. While the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or other factors discussed elsewhere in this report, Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the mere existence of risk is not necessarily reason for concern. However, the following risks could cause actual results to materially differ from those discussed in any forward-looking statement. Interest Rate Risk As part of its normal operations, the Company, like most financial institutions, is subject to interest-rate risk on the interest-earning assets in which it invests (primarily loans and securities) and the interest-bearing liabilities with which it funds (primarily customer deposits, brokered deposits and borrowed funds). This includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rate indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change to the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk). Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions, the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and competition. These factors may cause fluctuations in interest rates that adversely affect the fair market values of the Company’s financial instruments, cash flows, and net income. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to the risk that third parties that owe it money, securities, or other assets will not perform their obligations. Credit risk arises anytime the Company extends, commits, invests, or otherwise exposes Company funds through contractual agreements, whether reflected on or off the balance sheet. These parties may default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Credit risk includes the risk that the Company’s rights against third parties (including guarantors) may not be enforceable or realizable in all circumstances. The Company’s credit risk is concentrated in its loan portfolio (including commitments) and its investment portfolio. The Company also has credit risk through other financial instruments including derivative contracts and Company owned life insurance policies. Credit risk is affected by a variety of factors including the credit-worthiness of the borrower or other party, the sufficiency of underlying collateral, the enforceability of third-party guarantees, changing economic and industry conditions and concentrations of credit by loan type, terms or geographic area, changes in the financial condition of the borrower or other party, and by credit and underwriting policies. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations pending sale, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt when due or called, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures, among other things. Liquidity is derived primarily from bank-issued deposit growth and retention; 9 Table of Contents principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments from investment securities, sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. The Company’s liquidity can be affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, market disruption, operational problems affecting third parties or the Company, unfavorable pricing, competition, the Company’s credit rating and regulatory restrictions. Price/Market Risk Price/market risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from adverse changes in the value of financial instruments. While this includes credit and liquidity risk, the Company considers interest-rate risk to be its most significant market risk. When interest rates increase, the fair value of a financial instrument on the asset side of the balance sheet will decrease. Conversely, when rates decline the fair value of the same instrument will increase. While this relationship applies to all fixed-rate financial instruments, the primary instruments whose carrying values are affected by price/market risk are traded instruments. Since the Company currently has only an available-for-sale portfolio and does not maintain investment securities in a trading account, market fluctuations are recorded through equity and not the statements of income. On-going adverse fair values could cause some security fair values to deteriorate to the extent that they are considered to be other than temporary. At that time, the Company would be required to write-down security values to their fair value as a charge to earnings. Transaction/Operation Risk Transaction/operation risk is a function of internal controls, information systems, employee integrity and operating processes. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal processes, controls, staff or systems could lead to impairment of liquidity, financial loss, disruption of the business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to the Company’s reputation. For example, the Company is highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. Failure of financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and controls to operate properly, becoming disabled, or to keep pace with increasing volumes, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to capture, process and accurately report these transactions. Compliance/Legal Risk The Company is subject to compliance with an expanding body of regulatory, supervisory and examination requirements including capital adequacy, safety/soundness, customer privacy, anti-money laundering, truth-in-savings/lending and financial reporting, to name a few. Failure or the inability to comply with these various requirements can lead to diminished reputation and investor confidence, reduced franchise value, loss of business, curtailment of expansion opportunities, fines and penalties, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. Refer to discussion included in Key Initiatives and Other Significant Items and Events in Item 7 for a summary of recent regulatory developments. Strategic Risk Strategic risk is the potential for adverse consequences to the Company of poor business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions. It includes identifying and defining goals for the continued growth and success of the Company, developing strategies to accomplish the goals, and acquiring, developing and retaining the physical resources and human capital necessary to successfully execute the strategies. 10 Table of Contents Presently, the Company has four primary strategic initiatives: team strength, customer community, growth and productivity and process excellence. The Company’s ability to successfully execute these initiatives depends upon a variety of factors, including its ability to attract and retain experienced personnel, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities and locations, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in its new market areas, and the ability to manage growth. Reputation Risk Reputation risk arises from the possibility that negative publicity regarding the Company’s business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in its customer base or result in costly litigation. In a service industry, such as the financial services industry, where product choices between companies are not always clearly distinguishable and which in many cases are fungible, a company’s reputation for honesty, fair-dealing and good corporate governance may be one of its most important assets. Loss of or damage to that reputation can have severe consequences. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 