ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If we are unable to obtain adequate funds, we may not be able to develop and pursue the commercial application of our HDL Therapy and Viral Immunotherapy platforms. We depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. In particular, we will require significant amounts of capital in order to conduct pre-clinical studies and clinical trials necessary to develop our HDL Therapy and Viral Immunotherapy platforms, and to pursue regulatory approval for products based on these platforms. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments equal to $14,588,000. We believe that we have at our disposal sufficient capital to fund our operations, including our current development projects, to the early part of 2007. However, due to unforeseen developments, our ability to fund our capital 12 requirements may vary from those currently planned. In addition, the amount of our future capital requirements cannot be quantified, but we expect them to be significant. We intend to seek capital needed to fund our operations through corporate partnerships, technology licensing, the pursuit of research and development grants, or public or private equity or debt financings. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Should we raise funds through the incurrence of debt, we may become subject to covenants that may significantly restrict our operations. In the event we issue additional equity, our stockholders may suffer significant dilution. If we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, our ability to continue our business as planned will be significantly impaired and it may cause us to cease operations. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, will continue to incur substantial losses in the future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, we incurred a net loss of approximately $10,214,000 and since Inception through December 31, 2005, we have accumulated a deficit of approximately $63,281,000. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development and begin to allocate significant and increasing resources to clinical testing and other activities related to seeking approval to market our products. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will be dependent in large part on the success of our development programs, obtaining regulatory approval for our products and entering into collaborations for product development, manufacturing and commercialization, all of which are uncertain. As a result, we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our technology is only in the clinical development stage, may not prove to be safe or effective, and may never receive regulatory approval or achieve widespread use, which would significantly harm our business prospects. Before obtaining required regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our potential products, we must demonstrate, through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, that our technology is safe and effective for use in at least one medical indication. These studies and clinical trials are expected to take a number of years and may fail to show that our technology is sufficiently safe and effective, in which case our technology will not receive regulatory approval, and we will not be able to develop and commercialize our products. Our technology, and hence, our business, at present is limited to addressing two medical applications: cardiovascular disease, using our HDL Therapy platform (HDL Selective Delipidation and HDL mimetic peptides), and viral infections, using our Viral Immunotherapy platform. HDL Therapy is aimed at developing treatments for the reversal of atherosclerosis, while the Viral Immunotherapy platform is focused on treatments for people suffering from conditions associated with lipid-enveloped viruses such as HIV, Hepatitis B and C, SARS, West Nile and influenza. If our technology does not prove to be safe or effective, if we otherwise fail to receive regulatory approval for our potential product indications, or if we fail to successfully commercialize any product that may receive regulatory approval, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed and it may cause us to cease operations. Our future clinical studies may be delayed or unsuccessful. Our future success depends in large part upon the results of clinical trials designed to assess the safety and effectiveness of our potential product indications. The ultimate results of clinical studies cannot be predicted with accuracy and can be impacted by many variables. We cannot be sure whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or will be completed on schedule or at all. Delay or failure to complete clinical studies may delay or prevent us from bringing products to market, which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, any of our 13 future clinical studies might be delayed in their initiation or performance, or even halted after initiation because: •extensive pre-clinical animal studies are required by the regulatory authorities to demonstrate the safety of the process technology; •the data generated by the pre-clinical animal studies does not indicate to the regulatory authorities that there is a sufficient margin of safety; •the potential clinical benefit from the delipidation process cannot be effectively demonstrated through the pre-clinical animal studies; •the relevant regulatory requirements for initiating and maintaining an application for a clinical study cannot be met; •the product or process is not effective, or physicians perceive that the product is not effective; •patients experience severe side effects during treatment or possibly even death as a result of the treatment; •patients die during a clinical study because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems that are not related to the product being studied; •patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate we expect; or •the discovery by us, during the course of the study, of deficiencies in the way the study is being conducted by the study investigators that raise questions as to whether the study is being conducted in conformity with the relevant regulatory authorities' regulations or Good Clinical Practice. We depend on our license agreement with Aruba International B.V. that may, if terminated, significantly harm our business. We have entered into an agreement for an exclusive license to patents, know-how and other intellectual property relating to our foundation technology for removal of lipids from proteins and our continued operations at present are dependent upon such intellectual property. The licensor is Aruba International B.V., a company controlled by Dr. Bill E. Cham, a founding stockholder of Pre-Merger Lipid and one of our former Directors. The technology licensed from Aruba currently represents an important part of the technology owned or licensed by us. Aruba may terminate the license agreement if we fail to perform and fail to remedy following written notice of default with respect to our material obligations under the agreement, including our obligations to make royalty payments, or if we cease, without intention to resume, all efforts to commercialize the subject matter of the licensed intellectual property. If our license with Aruba B.V. terminates, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed and it may cause us to cease operations. We intend to rely on collaborations in order to further develop our products and processes. If we are unable to enter into any collaborations, or if any of these collaborations are unsuccessful, the development of our products could be adversely affected and we may incur significant unexpected costs. We intend to enter into collaborations with strategic partners, licensors, licensees and others. We may be unable to maintain or expand our existing collaborations on favorable terms, or at all, or establish additional collaborations or licensing arrangements necessary to develop our technology on favorable terms, or at all. We may not be able to enter into any collaborations or licensing arrangements with strategic partners in the future, and any existing or future collaborations or licensing arrangements may not be successful. In addition, parties we collaborate with may develop products or processes that compete with ours, and we cannot be certain that they will perform their contractual obligations or that any revenues will be derived from such arrangements. If one or more of these 14 parties fails to achieve product development objectives, this failure could harm our ability to fund related programs and develop or commercialize products, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is intensely competitive. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries are intensely competitive and we may not be able to develop, perfect or acquire rights to new products with commercial potential. We compete with biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies that have been established longer than we have, have more experience in commercializing their technology, have a greater number of products on the market, have greater financial and other resources and have other technological or competitive advantages. We also have competition in the development of technologies and processes and in acquiring personnel and technology from academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other private and public research organizations. We cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our clinical studies, product development or business; will benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities; or will not develop products that are more clinically effective, cost-effective, or that are otherwise accepted more widely than ours. If we fail to secure and then enforce patents and other intellectual property rights underlying our technologies, or if the use of our technology is determined to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection, enforce patents once obtained, maintain trade secrets and operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others, and if needed, obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties with respect to their technology, both in the United States and in foreign countries. We currently have an exclusive license from Aruba International B.V. with respect to three issued U.S. patents, three issued Australian counterpart patents, one issued Japanese counterpart patent, one issued European counterpart patent and counterpart applications as well as independent pending patent applications. The issued U.S. patents will expire in January 2008, January 2016 and June 2017. There are additional pending applications assigned to us and we are constantly strengthening our intellectual property portfolio in accordance with our technological advancements. Each of the patents and pending applications relates to different aspects of our technology platforms. However, these patent applications may not be approved and, even if approved, our patent rights may not be upheld in a court of law or may be narrowed if challenged. The patent positions of biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patent rights may not provide competitive advantages for our products and may be challenged, infringed upon or circumvented by our competitors. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. It is our policy to require our employees, certain contractors, consultants, members of our Scientific and Viral Advisory Boards and parties to collaborative agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of a business relationship with us. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets or know-how or adequate remedies if there is unauthorized use or disclosure of this information or that our trade secrets or know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. If it were ultimately determined that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable, or that our use of our technology infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required or may desire to obtain licenses to patents and other intellectual property held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products using our technology. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on 15 commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and any licensed patents or intellectual property that we may obtain may not be valid or enforceable. In addition, the scope of intellectual property protection is subject to scrutiny and challenge by courts and other governmental bodies. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and proprietary technologies can be protracted, expensive and distracting to management and companies may sue competitors as a way of delaying the introduction of competitors' products. Any litigation, including any interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, oppositions to patents in foreign countries or litigation against our partners, may be costly and time-consuming and could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the large number of patent filings in the biopharmaceutical field, our competitors may have filed applications or been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary intellectual property rights relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents do not exist or will not be issued that would harm our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, such as blood products, organic solvents and other hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could be significant. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. Because most of our products are based on technologies that are unfamiliar to the healthcare community, they may not be accepted by healthcare providers and patients, which could harm our business. We may experience difficulties in launching new products, many of which are novel and based on technologies that are unfamiliar to the healthcare community. We have no assurance that healthcare providers and patients will accept such products, if developed. In addition, government agencies, as well as private organizations involved in healthcare, from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers and patients. Such guidelines or recommendations can be very influential and may adversely affect the usage of any products we may develop directly (for example, by recommending to screen blood donations for certain viruses) or indirectly (for example, by recommending a competitive product over our product). We depend on key personnel and will need to hire additional key personnel in the future. Our ability to operate successfully depends in significant part upon the experience, abilities and continued service of certain key scientific, technical and managerial personnel. If we lose the services of any of these personnel and we are unable to hire qualified replacements, our business could be harmed. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel in these areas and our ability to develop and maintain relationships with qualified clinical researchers. There is intense competition for the services for these personnel, especially in California. Moreover, we expect the high cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, may impair our ability to attract and retain employees in the future. There can be no assurance that we can retain our existing personnel or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel or develop and maintain relationships with clinical researchers in the future. 16 Our stock price may be volatile and there may not be an active trading market for our common stock. There can be no assurance that there will be an active trading market for our common stock or that the market price of the common stock will not decline below its present market price. The market prices for securities of companies in the biotechnology, medical device and healthcare industries have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Factors that have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: •material public announcements; •actual or potential clinical results with respect to our products under development or those of our competitors; •the announcement and timing of any new product introductions by us or others; •technical innovations or product development by us or our competitors; •regulatory approvals or regulatory issues; •developments relating to patents and proprietary rights; •political developments or proposed legislation in the medical device or healthcare industry; •economic and other external factors, disaster or crisis; •changes to our management; •period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or results which do not meet or exceed analyst expectations; •our financing activities; •potential changes in stock ownership positions; and •market trends relating to or affecting stock prices throughout our industry, whether or not related to results or news regarding us or our competitors. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Regardless of its outcome, securities litigation may result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Existing stockholders may experience future dilution. As of December 31, 2005, 6,799,093 stock options and 2,839,565 warrants to purchase our common stock were outstanding, which if exercised, would result in the issuance of our common stock. Moreover, in the near future, we anticipate the need for additional capital to fund our operations. Such capital could be obtained by selling additional common stock or other equity instruments. Any future issuance of our common stock will have the effect of diluting ownership of existing stockholders. We have adopted several anti-takeover measures. We have taken a number of actions that could discourage a takeover attempt that might be beneficial to stockholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: •our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares. Any series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, 17 voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of common stock; •our Directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the entire Board from being replaced in any single year; •our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws require the affirmative vote of the holders of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (662/3%) of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors, voting together as a single class, to make, alter, amend or repeal our Bylaws; •our Certificate of Incorporation does not permit stockholders to take an action by written consent; •our Certificate of Incorporation and the Bylaws provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Board of Directors by a resolution approved by a majority of the total number of Directors we would have if there were no vacancies; and •under our Bylaws, notice regarding stockholder proposals and Director nominations must have been delivered not less than 45 days nor more than 75 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which we first mailed our proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and the Nasdaq National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, we might be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the Nasdaq National Market, and our reputation may be harmed. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all future conditions. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404"), we are still exposed to potential risks from error or fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurances that the objectives of the control system are met. The design of a control system reflects resource constraints; the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. As these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, these risks. These inherent 18 limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns occur because of simple error or mistake. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. While our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures. We intend to review and evaluate the design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures on an ongoing basis and to improve our controls and procedures over time and to correct any deficiencies that we may discover in the future. While our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, the design of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, was effective, future events affecting our business may cause us to significantly modify our disclosure controls and procedures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 