ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related To Our Business and Industry Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions in general. Over the past 18 months, the United States economy and the global economy experienced a severe economic downturn. Only in recent months has it appeared that United States and global economic conditions are beginning to improve. Notwithstanding these signs of improvement, business activity across a wide range of industries and regions remains greatly reduced, and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has also increased dramatically. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a significant lack of liquidity in the credit markets. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages. The global markets have since been characterized by substantially increased volatility and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but now in companies in virtually all other industries and in the broader markets. Declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant and lasting declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. As a result of this market volatility, many banks and other institutions have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. This has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of many financial institutions worldwide, resulting in the failure or near-failure of many institutions. Despite governmental intervention both in the United States and abroad, asset values remain stressed and access to liquidity in the credit markets continues to be restricted. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. We anticipate that the business environment in our markets and the United States as a whole could remain depressed for the foreseeable future, and there remains a significant possibility of further deterioration. In either case, the credit quality of our loans as well as our results of operations and financial condition are likely to be materially and adversely affected. We believe that the impact of the economic downturn in the United States heightens all of the risk described in the remainder of this Item 1A. We are subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. For the reasons explained below, if current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we may experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 61.99% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk to our financial condition than other types of loans due primarily to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our commercial, construction and commercial real estate loan portfolios are discussed in more detail under the caption “Operations – Operations of the Bank” in Item 1, Business. We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate. Approximately 84.98% of our loan portfolio had real estate as a primary or secondary component of the collateral securing the loan. The real estate provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of a default by the borrower. Over the past two years, United States real estate has experienced a severe decline in value, and it is not clear at this point whether real estate values have begun to stabilize. Although real estates values in the markets in which we operate have not declined as dramatically as in other areas of the United States, any such adverse change in our markets could significantly impair the value of the particular collateral securing our loans and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure for an amount necessary to satisfy the borrower’s obligations to us. Furthermore, in a declining real estate market, we often will need to further increase our allowance for loan losses to address the deterioration in the value of the real estate securing our loans, which was the case in 2009 and 2008. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.0 billion in commercial real estate loans, representing approximately 44.33% of our loans outstanding on that date. In addition to the general risks associated with our lending activities described above, including the effects of declines in real estate values, commercial real estate loans are subject to additional risks. Commercial real estate loans depend on cash flows from the property to service the debt. Cash flows, either in the form of rental income or the proceeds from sales of commercial real estate, may be affected significantly by general economic conditions. A downturn in the local economy generally or in occupancy rates where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. In addition, in light of the current downturn in United States real estate markets generally, banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny and, in some instances, have required banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposure. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information furnished by others about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we often rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for possible loan losses may be insufficient. Although we try to maintain diversification within our loan portfolio in order to minimize the effect of economic conditions within a particular industry, management also maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the entire loan portfolio. The appropriate level of the allowance is based on management’s ongoing analysis of the loan portfolio and represents an amount that management deems adequate to provide for inherent losses, including collateral impairment. Among other considerations in establishing the allowance for loan losses, management considers economic conditions reflected within industry segments, the unemployment rate in our markets, loan segmentation and historical losses that are inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. The economic downturn in the United States has made it more difficult to estimate with precision the extent to which credit risks and future trends need to be addressed through a provision to our allowance for loan losses. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures related to management’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is set forth under the caption “Risk Management – Credit Risk and Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We are subject to interest rate risk. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets, such as loans and securities, and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Currently, to help combat the effects of the economic downturn in the United States, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it is likely to maintain a low interest rate policy with respect to its federal funds target rate for the foreseeable future. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (3) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. For example, throughout 2009 higher-fixed rate mortgages have been repaid faster than anticipated as long-term mortgage rates have remained low and borrowers have refinanced into lower rate mortgages. Further, if the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income could be adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect our earnings. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the results of our operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in interest rates may also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government and Agency securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. Disintermediation could also result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain interest rate risk is set forth under the caption “Risk Management – Interest Rate Risk” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary source of the Bank’s funds are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Many of these conditions have arisen during the current economic downturn. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations or to support growth. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If the aforementioned sources of liquidity are not adequate for our needs, we may attempt to raise additional capital in the capital markets. Over the past year, major stock market indices have been volatile, and our stock price has been affected as well. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in such markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital in this manner. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs, we may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Since 2004, we have significantly grown our business outside our Mississippi footprint through the acquisition of entire financial institutions and through de novo branching. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through de novo branching. In addition, we expect to continue to evaluate attractive acquisition opportunities that are presented to us. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development, including the following: Management of Growth. We may be unable to successfully: • maintain loan quality in the context of significant loan growth; • maintain adequate management personnel and systems to oversee such growth; • maintain adequate internal audit, loan review and compliance functions; and • implement additional policies, procedures and operating systems required to support such growth. Operating Results. There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as we routinely add new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices. Should any new location be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or should any existing location experience a decline in profitability or incur losses, the adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition could be more significant than would be the case for a larger company. Development of Offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our de novo branches can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in opening any of our de novo branches. We may be unable to accomplish future branch expansion plans due to a lack of available satisfactory sites, difficulties in acquiring such sites, increased expenses or loss of potential sites due to complexities associated with zoning and permitting processes, higher than anticipated merger and acquisition costs or other factors. Finally, we have no assurance our de novo branches or branches that we may acquire will be successful even after they have been established or acquired, as the case may be. Expansion into New Markets. Much of our recent growth, and all of our growth through acquisitions, has been focused in the highly-competitive Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee and Birmingham and Huntsville, Alabama metropolitan markets. The customer demographics and financial services offerings in these markets are unlike those found in the Mississippi markets that we have historically served. In these growth markets we face competition from a wide array of financial institutions, including much larger, well-established financial institutions. Regulatory and Economic Factors. Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events, including regulatory changes enacted in response to the current economic downturn. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Such factors may cause us to alter our growth and expansion plans or slow or halt the growth and expansion process, which may prevent us from entering certain target markets or allow competitors to gain or retain market share in our existing or expected markets. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to successfully address these issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may face risks with respect to future acquisitions. When we attempt to expand our business through mergers and acquisitions, we seek partners that are culturally similar to us, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition and merger partners; • inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new bank locations, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction; • the incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; and • risks associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, which are discussed below. We expect to continue to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities that are presented to us and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Historically, acquisitions of financial institutions have involved the payment of a premium over book and market values. Currently, merger and acquisition activity has been primarily the result of the acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities from failed financial institutions in which the acquirer enters into an agreement with the FDIC so that the acquirer and the FDIC share in the future losses on the assets acquired. In any merger or acquisition , failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Details of the 2007 merger with Capital are presented in Note V, “Mergers and Acquisitions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our integration efforts following any future mergers or acquisitions may not be successful. After giving effect to an acquisition, we may not be able to achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. The success of any merger or acquisition we enter into will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may not be able to integrate our operations without encountering difficulties, such as: • the loss of key employees and customers; • the disruption of our ongoing business and operations; • our inability to maintain and increase competitive presence; • deposit attrition and revenue loss; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; • unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit; and/or • problems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration of operations. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we have difficulties with the integration, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the merger or acquisition. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in greater than expected costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business may divert management’s attention from other important issues and could seriously harm our business. Finally, cost savings from any mergers or acquisitions may be offset by losses in revenues or charges to earnings. Competition in the banking industry is intense and may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than we have, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The information under the caption “Competition” in Item 1, Business, provides more information regarding the competitive conditions in our growth markets. Our industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. The economic downturn in the United States has already resulted in the consolidation of a number of financial institutions, in addition to acquisitions of failed institutions. We expect additional consolidation to occur. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, proposed legislative and regulatory changes on both the federal and state level, if enacted, could materially affect competitive conditions in our industry. Finally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; • the ability to expand our market position; • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • customer satisfaction with our level of service; and • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the states of Mississippi, Tennessee and Alabama. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the states of Mississippi, Tennessee and Alabama and the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, 82% of our loans and 65% of our deposits as of December 31, 2009 were principally located in the Tupelo and Oxford, Mississippi, Memphis (including its suburbs in DeSoto County, Mississippi) and Nashville, Tennessee, and Birmingham, Decatur and Huntsville, Alabama metropolitan areas. Although economic conditions in these areas have not deteriorated as dramatically as in other areas of the United States, economic conditions have declined and could continue to decline. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. Our earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. In addition to the risks associated with the general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, our operations and profitability are also impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements abroad. These conditions include liquidity in the credit markets, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, deflated money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. The economic downturn that the United States is currently experiencing has resulted in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, which in turn has had an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The slow recovery of the United States economy from this downturn is likely to continue to negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and from time to time execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and such regulation could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Furthermore, significant changes to the regulations governing banks and other financial institutions have been proposed in light of the recent performance of the financial institutions sector and the events that contributed to such performance. We believe it is likely that some of these proposed changes will be enacted, although it is impossible to predict the ultimate substance of these changes or their likely effect on our activities or profitability. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of the foregoing, could affect us and/or the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework or “well managed” under regulatory examination procedures could compromise our status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for merger or acquisition proposals and would result in higher deposit insurance premiums assessed by the FDIC. We are also subject to laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC regulations. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and/or civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. The information under the caption “Supervision and Regulation” in 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1, Business, and Note N, “Regulatory Matters,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, provides more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we and the Bank operate. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a bank of our size. Competition for such personnel can be intense in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. We expect to effectively compete in this area by offering financial packages that are competitive within the industry. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although management has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before the loan is recorded and before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for an investor to resell our common stock when desired and at attractive prices. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by us or our competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • changes in government regulations; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger bank holding companies. Although our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is lower than other publicly traded companies, generally less than that of many of our competitors and other larger bank holding companies. For the three months ended February 28, 2010, the average daily trading volume for Renasant common stock was 76,242 shares per day. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law, and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The information under Note M, “Restrictions on Cash, Bank Dividends, Loans or Advances,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, provides a detailed discussion about the restrictions governing the Bank’s ability to transfer funds to us. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. We have supported a portion of our growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. Also, in connection with the Heritage Financial Holding Corporation (“Heritage”) and Capital mergers, we assumed junior subordinated debentures issued by Heritage and Capital, respectively. At December 31, 2009, we had trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures with a carrying value of $76 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, an investor may lose some or all of his investment in our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as certain banking laws, could decrease our chances of being acquired even if our acquisition is in our shareholders’ best interests. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions impedes a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. Our shareholders authorized the Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our shareholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without shareholder 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our shareholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction perceived to be favorable to our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 