ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. We may not have sufficient capital to continue as a going concern. Through November 21, 2008 bookings and revenues to date were insufficient to provide adequate levels of cash flow from operations or adequate levels of collateral to support required borrowings during the second quarter of fiscal 2009. As a result, we need to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit facilities during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 to continue as a going concern and to execute our business plan. Although we are in discussions with potential financing sources, if we are unsuccessful in securing additional capital during this period, through additional equity and/or debt financing, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and subsequent to August 29, 2008, we made reductions in headcount to bring the current number of employees to 84, and reduced engineering consulting and other overhead expenses. Should adequate capital or financing not be available, and if increased revenues not materialize, we are committed to further reducing operating costs to bring them in line with reduced revenue levels. No assurances can be given that operating costs can be sufficiently reduced to allow us to continue as a going concern. The audit report relating to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended August 29, 2008, contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 11 The recent volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, will likely have a negative impact on our ability to access the capital and credit markets. Recently, the capital and credit markets have become increasingly tight as a result of adverse economic conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience crisis and the availability of funds remains low, it is likely that our ability to access the capital and credit markets will be limited, available on less favorable terms or not available at all during this period when we need to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit facilities in order to continue as a going concern. In addition, if current global economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen substantially, our business may suffer in a manner which could cause us to fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing credit facilities. We are in the process of examining various strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, which is ongoing, but such process may not result in the achievement of the desired goal of enhancing shareholder value. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Board of Directors formed a committee of independent directors to explore strategic and financial alternatives to enhance shareholder value, including the retention of a financial advisor to assist us in this evaluation process. These strategic alternatives may include: (i) technology licensing agreements, (ii) product development and marketing arrangements, joint ventures or strategic partnerships, (iii) strategic acquisitions, mergers or other business combinations, or (iv) the merger or sale of all or part of the Company. We are also evaluating various financing alternatives to unlock the market value of our headquarters and associated real estate. To date, the committee has explored and considered a number of potential courses of action. This process is ongoing and there can be no assurance that these efforts will result in any specific action or transaction. Further, any such transaction or business arrangement may not ultimately lead to increased shareholder value. There are uncertainties and risks related to the exploration of strategic alternatives, including: · The distraction of management and potential disruption of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results; · The inability to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic action undertaken by us; · The time dedicated to the process can be lengthy and there are inherent costs associated with such a process; · Potential loss of other business opportunities as management focuses on the exploration of strategic alternatives; and · Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction which can result in difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel. In addition, the market price of our stock can be volatile as we explore strategic alternatives, which may continue or become more severe if and when a transaction or business arrangement is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate materially. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including: the timing of purchasing decisions by our customers, the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us or our competitors, competitive pricing pressures, adequate availability of components and offshore manufacturing capacity. Additional factors affecting our operating results include our ability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees, changes in product mix, and the effect of adverse changes in economic conditions in the United States and international markets. In addition, our markets have historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns. Our business is subject to rapid technological changes and there can be no assurance, depending on the mix of future business, that products stocked in inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance that we will not experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. 12 Our fluctuations in bookings and revenues affect our ability to borrow due to collateral advance formulas on our credit facilities. In addition, our credit facility imposes debt covenants and maximum borrowing limits. At August 29, 2008, we had line of credit borrowings outstanding of $1,833,000 and our borrowing availability under our current line of credit advance formulas was $3,117,000. At November 21, 2008, the outstanding balance on the line of credit increased to $3,268,000 and our borrowing availability decreased to $559,000. Our credit facility currently provides for advances in excess of the availability formulas of up to $1,000,000 during the term of the facility. We could require additional overadvances due to fluctuations in accounts receivable, inventory levels and outstanding letter of credit balances. There is no assurance the bank would grant additional overadvances. At August 29, 2008, we were in compliance with our debt covenants. Depending on our results of operations during fiscal 2009, we may not be in compliance with debt covenants at the end of fiscal 2009. A breach of these covenants or our inability to maintain the debt covenants could result in a default on our indebtedness. If a default occurs, the bank could increase the interest rate or declare any outstanding indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, and could proceed against our assets that secure that indebtedness. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and introduction, and there can be no assurance that we will not experience further delays in connection with our current product development or future development activities. Delays in development, testing, manufacture and/or release of new products or features, including digital receivers, Compel® network control software, MediaPlan® content management software, streaming media, and other products could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner and achieve market acceptance of our products, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Our lengthy and variable qualification and sales cycles make it difficult to predict the timing of a sale or whether a sale will be made. As is typical in our industry, our customers may expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to six months and sometimes longer. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing, and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time supplies prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our key customers would harm our business. Sales to a relatively small number of major customers have typically comprised a majority of our revenues, and that trend is expected to continue throughout fiscal 2009 and beyond. In fiscal 2008, three customers accounted for approximately 14.4%, 13.3% and 12.1% of revenues, respectively. Four customers accounted for 85.1% of the backlog at August 29, 2008 and 83.4% of the backlog scheduled to ship during fiscal 2009. In addition, recent disruptions in global economic and market conditions could result in decreases in demand for our products as the current tightening in credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our major customers to obtain financing for significant purchases. The loss of any significant customer or any reduction in orders by any significant customer would adversely affect our business and operating results and potentially our liquidity. We rely on third-party subcontractors, certain suppliers and offshore manufacturers. We use offshore manufacturers for a significant amount of finished goods or component inventories. Three offshore manufacturers accounted for approximately 52.0%, 21.0% and 2.6% of inventory purchases in fiscal 2008, respectively, and two offshore manufacturers accounted for approximately 41.7% and 22.6% in fiscal 2007, respectively. Certain raw materials, video sub-components and licensed video processing technologies used in existing and future products are currently available from a single source or limited sources. Any disruption or termination of supply of certain single-source components or technologies, or interruption of supply from offshore manufacturers, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, at least in the near term. 13 Our intellectual property rights may be insufficient to protect our competitive position. In addition, our pending or future intellectual property applications may not be issued. We hold three U.S patents currently, including a patent covering advanced receiver grouping techniques in Compel® which will expire on November 14, 2008 (See also “Intellectual Property”section above). We hold nine active trademarks, such as Compel®, iPump®, Wegener® and Unity®. Currently we have one patent application pending, five patents published and one trademark application pending. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, licensing arrangements and other measures, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent and trademark applications will be issued. We also cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents that we own. We may not be able to license necessary third-party technology or it may be expensive to do so. In addition, claims that we infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses and restrictions on our ability to sell our products in particular markets. In order to develop and market successfully certain of our planned products for digital applications, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into such technology development or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will be negotiated on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. Third parties have in the past claimed, and may in the future claim, that we have infringed their current or future intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Even if we prevail in litigation, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows. Competition in our industry is intense and can result in reduced sales and market share. We compete with companies which have substantially larger operations and greater financial, engineering, marketing, production and other resources than we have. These competitors may develop and market their products faster, devote greater marketing and sales resources, or offer more aggressive pricing, than we can. As a result, this could cause us to lose orders or customers or force reductions in pricing, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our business is subject to rapid changes in technology and new product introductions. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. Product introductions are generally characterized by increased functionality and better quality, sometimes at reduced prices. The introduction of products embodying new technology may render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce on a timely basis new and enhanced products that embody new technology, and achieve levels of functionality and price acceptable to the market, will be a significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in the industry, our business and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. The Nasdaq Stock Market may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to trade in our securities. On August 21, 2008, we received a notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) indicating that for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the “Rule”). The notice also stated that we had been provided with 180 calendar days, or until February 17, 2009, to regain compliance in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D). On October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced it had temporarily suspended enforcement of the minimum bid price and minimum market value of publicly held shares through January 16, 2009. As a result of this suspension, we now have until May 26, 2009 to regain compliance with the minimum bid rule. If, at anytime before May 26, 2009, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that we comply with the Rule. 14 If we cannot regain compliance by May 26, 2009, the Nasdaq staff will determine whether we meet The Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), except for the bid price requirement. If we meet the initial listing criteria, the Nasdaq staff will notify us that we have been granted an additional 180 calendar day compliance period. If we are not eligible for an additional compliance period, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal the Nasdaq staff’s determination to delist our securities to a Listing Qualifications Panel. If our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, the trading market for our common stock would likely be adversely affected, as price quotations may not be as readily obtainable, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility and such volatility may occur in the future, particularly as a result of quarter to quarter variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of the Company or other companies in the satellite communications industry or in the markets we serve. These and other factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 