ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. 13 We have a limited history of profitability and may need additional capital in the future, which we may not be able to secure on terms acceptable to us. Over the past five fiscal years, we have reported positive operating income only in fiscal year 2002. As a consequence, we had an accumulated deficit of $12,093,308 at September 2, 2005. There can be no certainty regarding our ability to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Whether or not we are able to operate profitably, we may require additional capital to finance our operations. We believe our existing liquidity sources will satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, if our expectations are incorrect, we may need to raise additional funds to fund our operations, to take advantage of unanticipated strategic opportunities or to strengthen our financial position. Our ability to raise funds, if required, may be adversely affected by a number of factors relating to Wegener, as well as factors beyond our control, including conditions in capital markets and the cable, telecom and satellite industries. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate materially. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including: the timing of purchasing decisions by our customers, the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us or our competitors, competitive pricing pressures, adequate availability of components and offshore manufacturing capacity. Additional factors affecting our operating results include our ability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees, changes in product mix, and the effect of adverse changes in economic conditions in the United States and international markets. In addition, our markets have historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns. Our business is subject to rapid technological changes and there can be no assurance, depending on the mix of future business, that products stocked in inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance that we will not experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and introduction, and there can be no assurance that we will not experience further delays in connection with our current product development or future development activities. Delays in development, testing, manufacture and/or release of new products or features, including digital receivers, Compel® network control software, MediaPlan® content management software, streaming media, and other products could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner and achieve market acceptance of our products, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Our lengthy and variable qualification and sales cycle makes it difficult to predict the timing of a sale or whether a sale will be made. As is typical in our industry, our customers may expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to six months and sometimes longer. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing, and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time supplies prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our key customers would harm our business. Sales to a relatively small number of major customers have typically comprised a majority of our revenues, and that trend is expected to continue throughout fiscal 2006 and beyond. In fiscal 2005, four customers accounted for approximately 22.5%, 14.1%, 13.0% and 10.3% of revenues, respectively. Three customers accounted for 97.7% of the backlog at September 2, 2005 and for 96.9% of the backlog scheduled to ship during fiscal 2006. The loss of any significant customer or any reduction in orders by any significant customer would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and liquidity. 14 We rely on third-party subcontractors, certain suppliers and offshore manufacturers. We use two offshore manufacturers for a significant amount of finished goods or component inventories. Certain raw materials, video sub-components and licensed video processing technologies used in existing and future products are currently available from a single source or limited sources. Any disruption or termination of supply of certain single-source components or technologies, or interruption of supply from offshore manufacturers, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, at least in the near term. Competition in our industry is intense and can result in reduced sales and market share. We compete with companies which have substantially larger operations and greater financial, engineering, marketing, production and other resources than we have. These competitors may develop and market their products more quickly, devote greater marketing and sales resources, or offer more aggressive pricing, than we can. As a result, this could cause us to lose orders or customers or force reductions in pricing, all of which would have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our business is subject to rapid changes in technology and new product introductions. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. Product introductions are generally characterized by increased functionality and better quality, sometimes at reduced prices. The introduction of products embodying new technology may render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce on a timely basis new and enhanced products that embody new technology, and achieve levels of functionality and price acceptable to the market will be a significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in the industry, our business and operating results will be materially and adversely. There is no assurance of a continued trading market in our stock. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. There is no assurance that a public market for our stock will continue to be made or that persons purchasing our common stock will be able to avail themselves of a public trading market for the common shares in the future. We currently satisfy all requirements for continued eligibility for trading on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. There can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with Nasdaq's continued listing requirements. If the common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, the trading market for the common stock will be adversely affected, as price quotations for the common stock will not be as readily obtainable, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility and such volatility may occur in the future, particularly as a result of quarter to quarter variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of the Company or other companies in the satellite communications industry or in the markets we serve. These and other factors may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 