ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those listed below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. We may not have sufficient capital to continue as a going concern. Our bookings and revenues during fiscal 2010 and to date in fiscal 2011 have been insufficient to attain profitable operations and to provide adequate levels of cash flow from operations. We have experienced recurring net losses from operations, which have caused an accumulated deficit of approximately $20,265,000 at September 3, 2010. We had a working capital deficit of approximately $3,248,000 at September 3, 2010 compared to a working capital deficit of approximately $1,139,000 at August 28, 2009. Our ability to continue as a going concern will depend upon our ability to increase our bookings and revenues in the near term to attain profitable operations and to generate sufficient cash flow from operations. Should increased revenues not materialize, we are committed to further reducing operating costs to bring them in line with reduced revenue levels. Should we be unable to achieve near term profitability and generate sufficient cash flow from operations and if we are unable to sufficiently reduce operating costs, we would need to raise additional capital or increase our borrowings. No assurances can be given that operating costs can be sufficiently reduced, or if required, that additional capital or borrowings would be available to allow us to continue as a going concern. The audit reports relating to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended September 3, 2010, August 28, 2009 and August 29, 2008 contain explanatory paragraphs regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 12 The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, will likely have a negative impact on our ability to access the capital and credit markets. The capital and credit markets have become increasingly tight as a result of adverse economic conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience crisis and the availability of funds remains low, it is likely that our ability to access the capital and credit markets will be limited, available on less favorable terms or not available at all during this period in the event we need to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit facilities in order to continue as a going concern. In addition, if current global economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen substantially, our business may suffer in a manner which could cause us to fail to satisfy the representations, warranties and covenants to which we are subject under our existing credit facility. Conditions and changes in the national and global economic environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Economic conditions have been weak and global financial markets have experienced a severe downturn. The current global economic slowdown and tight credit markets has led many of our customers to delay or plan lower capital expenditures, and we believe that these economic and credit conditions caused certain of our customers to reduce or delay orders for our products. If adverse economic and credit conditions resulting from slower economic activity and tight credit markets remain weak or deteriorate further, we may continue to experience a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate materially. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including: the timing of purchasing decisions by our customers, the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us or our competitors, competitive pricing pressures, adequate availability of components and offshore manufacturing capacity. Additional factors affecting our operating results include our ability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees, changes in product mix, and the effect of adverse changes in economic conditions in the United States and international markets. In addition, our markets have historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns. Our business is subject to rapid technological changes and there can be no assurance, depending on the mix of future business, that products stocked in inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance that we will not experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. Our fluctuations in bookings and revenues affect our cash flow from operations. In addition, our credit facility imposes a maximum borrowing limit, requires compliance with debt representation, warranty and covenant provisions, and matures on April 7, 2011. Our cash collections from our accounts receivable are impacted by the timing and levels of our bookings and revenues. Any shortfalls in such collections would require us to increase borrowings under our credit facility which has a maximum available credit limit of $4,250,000. Our loan facility requires us to be in compliance with certain representations, warranties and covenants. Among which, we were required by September 3, 2010 to be in compliance with the solvency representation provision. This representation requires us to be able to pay our debts as they become due, have sufficient capital to carry on our business and own property at a fair saleable value greater than the amount required to pay our debts. The solvency representation provision was subsequently extended to the last day of our second quarter in fiscal 2011 (March 4, 2011). A breach of this or other restrictive provisions of the loan facility could result in a default on our indebtedness. If a default occurs, any outstanding indebtedness, together with accrued interest, would be immediately due and payable, and the lender could proceed against our assets that secure that indebtedness. No assurances may be given that upon maturity (April 7, 2011) our loan facility will be renewed. In the event the loan facility is not renewed, we would need to obtain additional credit facilities or raise additional capital to continue as a going concern and to execute our business plan There is no assurance that such financing would be available or, if available, that we would be able to complete financing on satisfactory terms. Our inability to pay vendors within normal trade payment terms could adversely impact our operations. Our bookings and revenues during fiscal 2010, as well as to date in fiscal 2011, have been insufficient to attain profitable operations and to provide adequate levels of cash flow from operations. During fiscal 2010, as well as to date in fiscal 2011, due to insufficient cash flow from operations and borrowing limitations under our loan facility, we negotiated extended payment terms with our offshore vendor and have been extending other vendors beyond normal payment terms. Until such vendors are paid within normal payment terms, no assurances can be given that required services and materials needed to support operations will continue to be provided. In addition, no assurances can be given that vendors will not pursue legal means to collect past due balances owed. Any interruption of services or materials would likely have an adverse impact on our operations. 13 The Nasdaq Stock Market delisted our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to trade in our securities. On December 9, 2009, we received a letter (the “December 9th Letter”) from Nasdaq indicating that the Company’s securities would be delisted from Nasdaq at the opening of business on December 16, 2009 and a Form 25-NSE would be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) which would remove the Company’s securities from listing and registration on Nasdaq. However, the December 9th Letter also indicated that an official appeal by the Company to the Nasdaq Hearing Panel (the “Panel”) would stay the suspension of the Company’s securities and the filing of the Form 25-NSE pending the Panel’s determination. On December 11, 2009, the Company officially filed an appeal with the Panel. On February 17, 2010, the Company received notification from Nasdaq (the “Notification”), that as a result of the information presented by the Company at the appeal hearing held on January 13, 2010, the Panel granted the Company’s request to remain listed on Nasdaq subject to conditions stipulated in the Notification. The Notification stipulated that on or before June 7, 2010 (the “Exception Deadline”), the Company would be required to be compliant with Listing Rule 5550(b) which required shareholders’ equity of at least $2,500,000 or the Company meeting the listing alternatives of (i) a market value of listed securities of $35 million, or (ii) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years. In addition, the Company was required to be compliant with Marketplace Rule 4320 (current Listing Rule 5550(a) (2)), which required the Company’s common stock to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. In order to regain such compliance, the Company’s common stock must maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for a period of ten consecutive trading days or beyond ten trading days at the determination of the Panel. The Company was required to notify the Panel of any significant events occurring prior to June 7, 2010, including, without limitation, any event that might call into question the Company’s historical financial information or that might impact the Company’s ability to maintain compliance with any Nasdaq listing requirement or the Exception Deadline. The Panel reserved the right to reconsider their decision based on any event, condition or circumstance that existed or developed that would, in the opinion of the Panel, make continued listing of the Company’s common stock inadvisable or unwarranted. On April 8, 2010, we notified the Panel that based on our current level of existing backlog of orders scheduled to ship in our fiscal third quarter ending May 28, 2010, and our expected level of new shippable bookings for the third quarter, we did not expect that we would be able to comply with the Nasdaq requirements by the Exception Deadline. On April 20, 2010, the Company received notification from Nasdaq that the Panel had determined to delist the Company’s common stock. Nasdaq suspended trading of our common stock shares effective at the open of trading on April 22, 2010 and our common stock has not traded on NASDAQ since that time. As a result, on April 22, 2010, our common stock began trading over-the-counter under the symbol WGNR.PK. On June 9, 2010, NASDAQ filed a Form 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission to complete the delisting. The delisting became effective ten days after the filing of Form 25. The delisting of our common stock by Nasdaq could adversely affect the trading market for our common stock, as price quotations may not be as readily obtainable, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the Company’s ability to raise additional capital. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and introduction, and there can be no assurance that we will not experience further delays in connection with our current product development or future development activities. Delays in development, testing, manufacture and/or release of new products or features, including digital receivers, Compel® network control software, MediaPlan® content management software, streaming media, and other products could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner and achieve market acceptance of our products, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. 14 Our lengthy and variable qualification and sales cycles make it difficult to predict the timing of a sale or whether a sale will be made. As is typical in our industry, our customers may expend significant efforts in evaluating and qualifying our products. This evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging from three to six months and sometimes longer. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales, marketing, and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time supplies prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, it is possible that a potential customer will not purchase our products. Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our key customers would harm our business. Sales to a relatively small number of major customers have typically comprised a majority of our revenues, and that trend is expected to continue throughout fiscal 2011 and beyond. In fiscal 2010, two customers accounted for approximately 22.9% and 10.8% of revenues, respectively. At September 3, 2010, two customers accounted for 87% of the eighteen month backlog and 88% of the backlog expected to ship during fiscal 2011. In addition, recent disruptions in global economic and market conditions could result in decreases in demand for our products as the current tightening in credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our major customers to obtain financing for significant purchases. The loss of any significant customer or any reduction in orders by any significant customer would adversely affect our business and operating results and potentially our liquidity. We rely on third-party subcontractors, certain suppliers and offshore manufacturers. We use offshore manufacturers for a significant amount of finished goods or component inventories. One offshore manufacturer accounted for approximately 79% and 68% of inventory purchases in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Certain raw materials, video sub-components and licensed video processing technologies used in existing and future products are currently available from a single source or limited sources. Any disruption or termination of supply of certain single-source components or technologies, or interruption of supply from offshore manufacturers, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, at least in the near term. Our intellectual property rights may be insufficient to protect our competitive position. In addition, our pending or future intellectual property applications may not be issued. We hold five U.S patents and nine active trademarks, such as Compel®, iPump®, Wegener® and Unity®. (see also “Intellectual Property” section above). Currently we have two patent and two trademark applications pending. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, licensing arrangements and other measures, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent and trademark applications will be issued. We also cannot assure you that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents that we own. We may not be able to license necessary third-party technology or it may be expensive to do so. In addition, claims that we infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses and restrictions on our ability to sell our products in particular markets. In order to develop and market successfully certain of our planned products for digital applications, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Although many companies are often willing to enter into such technology development or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will be negotiated on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to enter into technology development or licensing agreements, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our business to suffer. Third parties have in the past claimed, and may in the future claim, that we have infringed their current or future intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Even if we prevail in litigation, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows. 15 Competition in our industry is intense and can result in reduced sales and market share. We compete with companies which have substantially larger operations and greater financial, engineering, marketing, production and other resources than we have. These competitors may develop and market their products faster, devote greater marketing and sales resources, or offer more aggressive pricing, than we can. As a result, this could cause us to lose orders or customers or force reductions in pricing, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our business is subject to rapid changes in technology and new product introductions. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. Product introductions are generally characterized by increased functionality and better quality, sometimes at reduced prices. The introduction of products embodying new technology may render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce on a timely basis new and enhanced products that embody new technology, and achieve levels of functionality and price acceptable to the market, will be a significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in the industry, our business and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility and such volatility may occur in the future, particularly as a result of quarter to quarter variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of the Company or other companies in the satellite communications industry or in the markets we serve. These and other factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 