Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to a number of risk factors including, among others, business and economic conditions, monetary and other governmental policies, accounting policies, competition and continuing consolidation in the financial services industry. These factors, and others, could impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the normal course of business, the Company assumes various types of risk, which include, among others, credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and risk associated with trading activities. In addition to information in this 10-K, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company has rapidly grown and there are risks associated with such growth. The Company has rapidly grown its operations in order to increase deposits and loans. The Company’s growth may place a strain on its administrative, operational, personnel and financial resources and increase demands on its systems and controls. If the Company is not able to maintain effective operating and control systems, attract qualified personnel, control costs or maintain asset quality, its growth could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation, which govern almost all aspects of its operations that are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors, and the deposit insurance funds. These laws, regulations and supervisory activities may change from time to time. The impact of any changes may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, including the processing of applications and the opening of new branches. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection, civil rights and other laws, including the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. While the Company cannot predict what the effect of any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations, or the application or enforcement thereof, would have, any changes could be materially adverse to the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company’s income and cash flows. The Company’s income and cash flows and the value of its assets and liabilities depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received and paid. If the Company does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. The Company’s ability to maintain its history of financial performance and return on investment to shareholders may depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to its customers. The Company’s business model focuses on using superior customer service to provide traditional banking services to a growing customer base. However, the Company operates in an increasingly competitive environment, a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If the Company is unable to expand the scope of its available financial services to its customers, this could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market and geographic area. The Company faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors. There is very strong competition for financial services in the areas in which the Company currently conducts its businesses. The Company encounters competition from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks and other financial institutions, including credit unions, consumer finance companies factors, insurance companies and money market funds. Its competitors compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by the Company. Due to size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and as a result may offer a broader range of products and services than the Company. Some of the financial services organizations with which the Company competes are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured financial institutions. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over the Company in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in the Company’s primary market area is very competitive, which could impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 An interruption to the Company’s information systems could impact the Company’s operations. The Company relies upon its information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of its business, including deposit and loan operations, as well as internal management functions. These systems and the Company’s operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by the Company’s employees, security breaches, computer viruses, intentional attacks by third parties or other unexpected events. Any disruption in the operation of the Company’s information systems could adversely impact the Company’s operations, which may affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which the Company’s operations are concentrated may be less favorable than expected. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. Particularly, a weakening of the real estate or employment market in the Company’s primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans. Any material economic deterioration could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s common stock is not insured by any governmental agency and, therefore, investments in the Company’s common stock involves risk. The securities of the Company are not deposit accounts or other obligation of any bank, and are not insured by the FDIC, or any other governmental agency, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. The Company’s Allowance for Credit Losses may be insufficient. The Company maintains an allowance for losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio and an allowance for losses on unfunded credit commitments. The allowance is established through provisions charged to expense and maintained at a level believed to be adequate by management for estimated credit losses. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of large classified loans and non-accrual loans, estimated losses based on risk characteristics of each loan or lease in the portfolio, economic stresses, variability in economic conditions and geopolitical risks, recent loss experience in specific portfolio segments, trends in loan quality and concentrations of credit. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that may be susceptible to significant change and which may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in the secondary residential mortgage loan markets and in the real estate markets as well as interest rate resets could adversely affect the Company. Recent significant disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that the Company holds, as well as mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. In addition, future rate resets on adjustable rate loans could drive increases in delinquencies and ultimately losses on these loans beyond that which has been provided for in the allowance for credit losses. In the event the allowance for credit losses is insufficient to cover such losses, the Company’s earnings and capital could be adversely affected. 11 The Company maintains a large portion of its assets in investment securities which, in the current economic environment, could be difficult to sell. Operation of the Company’s business model has resulted in the Company maintaining a significant portion of its assets in investment securities. Of its $26.4 billion of investment securities at December 31, 2007, $13.0 billion are classified as available for sale, and could be sold in response to changes in interest rates, prepayment risk, the Company’s income tax position, the need to increase regulatory capital, liquidity needs, or other similar factors. The market for certain of the securities held in the Company’s available for sale portfolio was extremely volatile in the latter portion of 2007, and the volatility has continued into 2008. This volatility has resulted in the lack of an active market for certain securities. If the Company attempted to sell certain of its investment securities, current economic conditions and the lack of a liquid market could affect the Company’s ability to sell those securities, as well as the value the Company would be able to realize. The Company is subject to claims and litigation. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has been advised that the SEC is conducting an investigation of the Company. The Company has been advised that an investigation is being conducted by the Staff of the SEC. The Company has further been advised that the scope of the investigation will include, but not be limited to, transactions with its current and former officers, directors and related parties, including transactions involving bank premises. The Company is fully cooperating with the SEC with respect to the investigation. The Company cannot predict how or when the investigation will be resolved or whether the investigation will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia (FRB) and Commerce NA has entered into a Consent Order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). On June 28, 2007, the Company entered into an MOU with the FRB and Commerce NA entered into a Consent Order with the OCC. The MOU and the Consent Order (together, the Regulatory Orders) relate to, among other things, corporate governance, related party transactions and policies and procedures for real estate related transactions. While the Company cannot predict what the impact of not complying with the Regulatory Orders would be, failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Company’s Merger with TD The Company may not be able to complete its merger with TD in a timely manner or at all. There can be no assurance that the merger with TD will be completed. Government approvals may not be obtained or may not be obtained on the proposed terms or in the expected timeframe. If the merger closes, the businesses of the Company may not be integrated successfully into the existing businesses of TD or the integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected. The combined company may not realize, to the extent or at the time we expect, revenue synergies and cost savings from the merger. Deposit attrition, operating costs, customer losses and business disruptions following the merger, including difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, could be greater than expected. For additional risks relating to the Company’s merger with TD, please see the section called “Risk Factors” in the Company’s definitive proxy statement relating to the merger, filed on January 4, 2008. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 