Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to a number of risk factors including, among others, business and economic conditions, monetary and other governmental policies, accounting policies, competition and continuing consolidation in the financial services industry. These factors, and others, could impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the normal course of business, the Company assumes various types of risk, which include, among others, credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and risk associated with trading activities. In addition to information in this 10-K, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 The Company plans to continue its rapid growth and there are risks associated with such growth. The Company plans to continue rapidly expanding its operations in order to increase deposits and loans. In particular, the Company intends to expand its banking franchise through continued store expansion. The Company’s growth may place a strain on its administrative, operational, personnel and financial resources and increase demands on its systems and controls. If the Company is unable to continue to upgrade or maintain effective operating and financial control systems and to recruit and hire necessary personnel or to successfully integrate new personnel into its operations, this could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the Company does not adjust to changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. The Company’s ability to maintain its history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders may depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to its customers. The Company’s business model focuses on using superior customer service to provide traditional banking services to a growing customer base. However, the Company operates in an increasingly competitive environment in which its competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies. This increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If the Company is unable to expand the scope of its available financial services to its customers or compete in this increasingly competitive environment, this could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in interest rates could reduce the Company’s income and cash flows. The Company’s income and cash flows and the value of its assets and liabilities depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received and paid. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation, which govern almost all aspects of its operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors, and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to these laws may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 