ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Risks Related To Our Business and IndustryOur business may be adversely affected by current economic conditions in general and specifically in our Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama and Georgia markets.General business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad can materially affect our business and operations. A weak U.S. economy is likely to cause uncertainty about the federal fiscal policymaking process, the medium and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal government and future tax rates. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries, including uncertainty over the stability of the euro currency, could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder U.S. economic growth.Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. The current economic environment in the United States is also characterized by interest rates at historically low levels, which impacts our ability to attract deposits and to generate attractive earnings through our investment portfolio. All of these factors are detrimental to our business, and the interplay between these factors can be complex and/or unpredictable. Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. More particularly, much of our business development and marketing strategy is directed toward fulfilling the banking and financial services needs small to medium-sized businesses. Such businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact our Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama 18Table of Contentsand Georgia markets generally and these businesses are adversely affected, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.We are subject to lending risk.There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. For the reasons explained below, if current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we may experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 66.50% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk to our financial condition than other types of loans due primarily to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our commercial, construction and commercial real estate loan portfolios are discussed in more detail under the heading “Operations – Operations of Community Banks” in Item 1, Business.We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate.At December 31, 2013, approximately 85.55% of our loan portfolio had real estate as a primary or secondary component of the collateral securing the loan. The real estate provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of a default by the borrower. United States real estate, particularly Georgia real estate, experienced a severe decline in value during the recent recession. Although real estate values have since begun to recover, any adverse change in our markets could significantly impair the value of the particular collateral securing our loans and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure for an amount necessary to satisfy the borrower’s obligations to us. Furthermore, in a declining real estate market, we often will need to further increase our allowance for loan losses to address the deterioration in the value of the real estate securing our loans. This was the case from 2008 to 2012. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate.At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $2.0 billion in commercial real estate loans, representing approximately 50.26% of our loans outstanding on that date. In addition to the general risks associated with our lending activities described above, including the effects of declines in real estate values, commercial real estate loans are subject to additional risks. Commercial real estate loans depend on cash flows from the property to service the debt. Cash flows, either in the form of rental income or the proceeds from sales of commercial real estate, may be affected significantly by general economic conditions. A downturn in the local economy generally or in occupancy rates where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default.In addition, as a result of the downturn in United States real estate markets during the recent recession, banking regulators have begun to give commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny and, in some instances, have required banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for loan losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposure. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information furnished by others about customers and counterparties.In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we often rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, other financial information and appraisals of the value of collateral. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, other financial information or appraisals could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.Our allowance for possible loan losses may be insufficient, and we may be required to further increase our provision for loan losses.Although we try to maintain diversification within our loan portfolio in order to minimize the effect of economic conditions within a particular industry, management also maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the entire loan portfolio. The appropriate level of the allowance is based on management’s ongoing analysis of the loan portfolio and represents an amount that management deems adequate to provide for inherent losses, including collateral impairment. Among other considerations in establishing the allowance 19Table of Contentsfor loan losses, management considers economic conditions reflected within industry segments, the unemployment rate in our markets, loan segmentation and historical losses that are inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.The economic downturn in the United States made it more difficult to estimate with precision the extent to which credit risks and future trends need to be addressed through a provision to our allowance for loan losses. Any worsening of the current economic conditions, which are relatively weak currently, could cause us to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures related to management’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is set forth under the heading “Risk Management – Credit Risk and Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.We are subject to interest rate risk.Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets, such as loans and securities, and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Currently, to help combat the effects of the economic downturn in the United States, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it is likely to maintain a low interest rate policy with respect to its federal funds target rate for the foreseeable future. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, and (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities.Our financial results are constantly exposed to market risk.Market risk refers to the probability of variations in net interest income or the fair value of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, among other things. The primary source of market risk to us is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. We are subject to market risk because of the following factors:—Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice more slowly than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline.—Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when interest rates are generally rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices that may not move in tandem.—Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently.—The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in our securities portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, we would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income.—Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of financial assets and financial liabilities, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings.Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce market risk on the results of our operations, these strategies are based on assumptions that may be incorrect. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Volatility in interest rates may also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government and Agency securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which 20Table of Contentsgenerally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. Disintermediation could also result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.A discussion of our policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain interest rate risk is set forth under the heading “Risk Management – Interest Rate Risk” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We rely on dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary source of the Bank’s funds are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Many of these conditions arose during the recent economic downturn. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations or to support growth. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands.If the aforementioned sources of liquidity are not adequate for our needs, we may attempt to raise additional capital in the capital markets. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in such markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital in this manner.If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs, we may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets.Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.We have grown our business outside our Mississippi footprint through the acquisition of entire financial institutions and through de novo branching. Since the beginning of 2011, we have opened eight de novo branches, acquired specified assets and the operations of, and assumed specified liabilities of, Crescent and American Trust in two FDIC-assisted transactions and acquired the RBC Bank (USA) trust division. Also, on September 1, 2013, we acquired First M&F Corporation (“First M&F”) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Merchants and Farmers Bank. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through de novo branching and to evaluate attractive acquisition opportunities that are presented to us. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies when expanding their franchise, including the following:Management of Growth. We may be unable to successfully:—maintain loan quality in the context of significant loan growth;—maintain adequate management personnel and systems to oversee such growth;—maintain adequate internal audit, loan review and compliance functions; and—implement additional policies, procedures and operating systems required to support such growth.Operating Results. There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as we routinely add new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices. Should any new location be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or should any existing location experience a decline in profitability or incur losses, the adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition could be more significant than would be the case for a larger company.Development of Offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our de novo branches can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in opening any of our de novo branches. We may be unable to accomplish future branch expansion plans due to a lack of available satisfactory sites, difficulties in acquiring such sites, increased expenses or loss of potential sites due to complexities associated with zoning and permitting processes, higher than 21Table of Contentsanticipated merger and acquisition costs or other factors. Finally, we have no assurance our de novo branches or branches that we may acquire will be successful even after they have been established or acquired, as the case may be.Expansion into New Markets. Much of our recent growth has been focused in the highly-competitive metropolitan areas of Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee and Birmingham and Huntsville, Alabama as well as north Georgia and east Tennessee markets. In these growth markets we face competition from a wide array of financial institutions, including much larger, well-established financial institutions.Regulatory and Economic Factors. Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events, including regulatory changes enacted in response to the current economic downturn (which are discussed in more detail below). Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Such factors may cause us to alter our growth and expansion plans or slow or halt the growth and expansion process, which may prevent us from entering certain target markets or allow competitors to gain or retain market share in our existing or expected markets.Failure to successfully address these issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisitions.The success of our acquisitions of specified assets and the operations of, and our assumption of specified liabilities of, Crescent and American Trust from the FDIC, our acquisition of the trust division of RBC Bank (USA) and our acquisition of First M&F will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to integrate the acquired assets and operations in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt our existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Additionally, we will make fair value estimates of certain assets and liabilities in recording each acquisition. Actual values of these assets and liabilities could differ from our estimates, which could result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the particular acquisition.We cannot assure you that our acquisitions will have positive results, including results relating to: correctly assessing the asset quality of the assets acquired; the total cost of integration, including management attention and resources; the time required to complete the integration successfully; the amount of longer-term cost savings; being able to profitably deploy funds acquired in the transaction; retaining the existing client relationships; or the overall performance of the combined business.Our future growth and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to successfully manage the combined operations. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and we may encounter a number of difficulties, such as:—deposit attrition, customer loss and revenue loss;—the loss of key employees;—the disruption of our operations and business;—our inability to maintain and increase competitive presence;—possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; and/or—unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit.Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration of the operations acquired.Notwithstanding our loss-share arrangements with the FDIC with respect to some of the assets that we acquired, we may continue to experience increased credit costs or need to take additional markdowns and make additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses on the Crescent and American Trust loans acquired whether on account of the effects of the economic downturn in the United States or otherwise. Similar circumstances could arise resulting from our acquisition of First M&F. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. There is no assurance that as our integration efforts continue in connection with either of the FDIC-assisted transactions or the integration of First M&F, other unanticipated costs, including the diversion of personnel, or losses will not be incurred. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business may divert management’s attention from other important issues and could harm our business.We may experience difficulty in managing the loan portfolios acquired from Crescent and American Trust within the limits of the loss protection provided by the FDIC.In connection with the acquisitions of Crescent’s and American Trust’s respective assets and operations and the assumption of their liabilities, the Bank entered into loss-share arrangements with the FDIC that covered approximately $700 million of acquired 22Table of Contentsassets in the aggregate. Under each loss-share arrangement, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse the Bank for 80% of all eligible losses with respect to covered assets, beginning with the first dollar of loss incurred. The Bank has a corresponding obligation to reimburse the FDIC for 80% of eligible recoveries with respect to covered assets. In addition, each Purchase and Assumption Agreement with the FDIC provides that after the 10th anniversary of the acquisition, the FDIC has a right to recover a portion of its shared-loss reimbursements if losses on the covered assets are less than $242 million for Crescent or $16 million for American Trust. The loss-share agreements applicable to single-family residential mortgage loans provide for FDIC loss-share and Bank reimbursement to the FDIC to run for ten years, and the loss-share agreement applicable to commercial and other assets provides for FDIC loss-share and Bank reimbursement to the FDIC to run for five years, with additional recovery sharing for three years thereafter.The FDIC has the right to refuse or delay loss-share payments for loan losses if we do not adhere to the terms of the loss-share agreements. Also, any charge-offs that we experience after the terms of the loss-share agreements have ended would not be recoverable from the FDIC.Certain provisions of the loss-share agreements entered into with the FDIC may have anti-takeover effects and could limit our ability to engage in certain strategic transactions that our board of directors believes would be in the best interests of shareholders.The FDIC’s agreement to bear 80% of qualifying losses on single family residential loans for ten years and commercial loans for five years is a significant asset of the Company and a feature of the Crescent and American Trust acquisitions without which we would not have entered into either transaction. Our agreements with the FDIC require that we receive FDIC consent, which may be withheld by the FDIC in its sole discretion, prior to us or our shareholders engaging in certain transactions. If any such transaction is completed without prior FDIC consent, the FDIC would have the right to discontinue either or both of the loss-share arrangements.Among other things, prior FDIC consent is required for (1) a merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another company if our shareholders will own less than 2/3 of the combined company, (2) a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Bank, or (3) a sale of shares by one or more of our shareholders that will effect a change in control of the Bank, as determined by the FDIC with reference to the standards set forth in the Change in Bank Control Act (generally, the acquisition of between 10% and 25% of our voting securities where the presumption of control is not rebutted, or the acquisition of more than 25% of our voting securities). It is unlikely that we would have any ability to control or prevent such a sale by our shareholders. If we or any shareholder desired to enter into any such transaction, there can be no assurances that the FDIC would grant its consent in a timely manner, without conditions, or at all. If one of these transactions were to occur without prior FDIC consent and the FDIC withdrew its loss-share protection, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company.We may face risks with respect to future acquisitions.When we attempt to expand our business through mergers and acquisitions (including FDIC-assisted transactions), we seek targets that are culturally similar to us, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through economies of scale or expanded services or, in the case of FDIC-assisted transactions, on account of the loss-share arrangements with the FDIC associated with such transactions. In addition to the general risks associated with our growth plans and the particular risks associated with FDIC-assisted transactions both of which are highlighted above, in general acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:—the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition and merger targets;—inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution;—the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new bank locations, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion;—our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders;—the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction;—the incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations;—entry into new markets where we lack experience; and—risks associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, as discussed above in the context of the Crescent and American Trust transactions.We expect to continue to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities (including FDIC-assisted transactions) that are presented to us and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Historically, acquisitions of non-failed financial institutions involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our book value and net income per common share may 23Table of Contentsoccur in connection with any future transaction. Failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Competition in our industry is intense and may adversely affect our profitability.We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than we have, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The information under the heading “Competition” in Item 1, Business, provides more information regarding the competitive conditions in our growth markets.Our industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. The economic downturn in the United States has already resulted in the consolidation of a number of financial institutions, in addition to acquisitions of failed institutions. We expect additional consolidation to occur. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, as highlighted by our discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act, legislative and regulatory changes on both the federal and state level may materially affect competitive conditions in our industry. Finally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures.Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:—the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe and sound assets;—the ability to expand our market position;—the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;—the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;—customer satisfaction with our level of service; and—industry and general economic trends.Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.Entities within the financial services industry are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and from time to time execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to extensive government regulation, and such regulation could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings.We and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Furthermore, as discussed below, the Dodd-Frank Act has already, and likely in the future will, result in significant changes to the regulations governing banks and other financial institutions, and other changes to such regulations have been proposed. We believe it is likely that some of these proposed changes will be enacted, although it is impossible to predict the ultimate substance of these changes or their likely effect on our activities or profitability. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of the foregoing, could affect us and/or the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.24Table of ContentsUnder regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under our regulatory framework or “well managed” under regulatory examination procedures could compromise our status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for merger or acquisition proposals and would result in higher deposit insurance premiums assessed by the FDIC.We are also subject to laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC regulations. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention.Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and/or civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. The information under the heading “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, Business, and Note P, “Regulatory Matters,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, provides more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we and the Bank operate.Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards and result in new laws and regulations that likely will increase our costs of operations.The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. This new law significantly changed the then-existing bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies have been given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have had a near term impact on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on the Company’s interest expense.The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009.The Dodd-Frank Act also requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments in certain circumstances. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not.The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Institutions such as Renasant Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakened the federal preemption rules that were applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gave state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws.It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on us. However, it is expected that at a minimum our operating and compliance costs will increase, and our interest expense could increase.25Table of ContentsBecause of stresses on the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has recently imposed, and could impose in the future, additional assessments on the banking industry.The current financial crisis has caused the Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC to fall below required minimum levels. Because the FDIC replenishes the DIF through assessments on the banking industry, we anticipate that the FDIC will likely maintain relatively high deposit insurance premiums for the foreseeable future. In 2010, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment on the banking industry, and there can be no assurance that it will not do so again. It has also required banking organizations to “pre-pay” deposit insurance premiums in order to replenish the liquid assets of the DIF, and may impose similar requirements in the future. High insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our profitability.Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting developments that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our information systems may experience a security breach, computer virus or disruption of service.Renasant Bank provides its customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. While we use qualified third party vendors to test and audit our network, our network could become vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, cyber-attacks and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us or the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, increased regulatory scrutiny, or possible exposure to financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a bank of our size. Competition for such personnel can be intense in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. We expect to effectively compete in this area by offering financial packages that are competitive within the industry.We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although management has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before the loan is recorded and before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards.Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events, like the 2010 Tennessee floods that impacted our Nashville, Tennessee offices and 26Table of Contentsthe April 2011 storms that devastated much of east Mississippi and west Alabama, could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Risks Associated With Our Common StockOur stock price can be volatile.Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for an investor to resell our common stock when desired and at attractive prices. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:—actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;—recommendations by securities analysts;—operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;—news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry;—perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;—new technology used, or services offered, by us or our competitors;—significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;—failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;—changes in government regulations; and—geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger bank holding companies.Although our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is lower than other publicly traded companies, generally less than that of many of our competitors and other larger bank holding companies. For the two months ended February 28, 2014, the average daily trading volume for Renasant common stock was 83,915 shares per day. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause volatility in the price of our common stock.Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law, and we may be unable to pay future dividends.We are a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The information under Note O, “Restrictions on Cash, Bank Dividends, Loans or Advances,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, provides a detailed discussion about the restrictions governing the Bank’s ability to transfer funds to us.Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders.We have supported a portion of our growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. Also, in connection with the First M&F, Heritage Financial Holding Corporation (“Heritage”) and Capital Bancorp, Inc. (“Capital”) mergers, we assumed junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2013, we had trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures with a carrying value of $94 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made 27Table of Contentson our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock.An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, an investor may lose some or all of his investment in our common stock.Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as certain banking laws, could decrease our chances of being acquired even if our acquisition is in our shareholders’ best interests.Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions impedes a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover.Our shareholders authorized the Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our shareholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our shareholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction perceived to be favorable to our shareholders.Shares eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect.Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in any other private or public offering of our common stock for cash or as incentives under incentive plans, could have a dilutive effect on the market for our common stock and could adversely affect market prices. As of February 28, 2014, there were 75,000,000 shares of our common stock authorized, of which 31,477,367 shares were outstanding.The FDIC’s Statement of Policy on the Acquisition of Failed Insured Depository Institutions may restrict our activities and those of certain investors in us.On August 26, 2009, the FDIC adopted the final Statement of Policy on the Acquisition of Failed Insured Depository Institutions (the “Statement”). The Statement purports to provide guidance concerning the standards for more than de minimis investments in acquirers of deposit liabilities and the operations of failed insured depository institutions. The Statement applies to private investors in a company, including any company acquired to facilitate bidding on failed banks or thrifts that is proposing to, directly or indirectly, assume deposit liabilities, or such liabilities and assets, from the resolution of a failed insured depository institution. By its terms, the Statement does not apply to investors with 5% or less of the total voting power of an acquired depository institution or its bank or thrift holding company (provided there is no evidence of concerted action by these investors). When applicable, among other things, covered investors (other than certain mutual funds) are prohibited by the Statement from selling their securities in the relevant institution for three years. In addition, covered investors must disclose to the FDIC information about the investors and all entities in the ownership chain, including information as to the size of the capital fund or funds, its diversification, the return profile, the marketing documents, the management team and the business model, as well as such other information as is determined to be necessary to assure compliance with the Statement. Furthermore, among other restrictions, the acquired institution must maintain a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to total assets of at least 10% for a period of three years from the time of acquisition; thereafter, the institution must maintain capital such that it is “well capitalized” during the remaining period of ownership by the covered investor. In addition, under the Statement, covered investors employing ownership structures utilizing entities that are domiciled in Secrecy Law Jurisdictions (as defined in the Statement) would not be eligible to own a direct or indirect interest in an insured depository institution, subject to certain exceptions.The Statement may be applicable to private investors in us and, in the event of any such private investors covered by the Statement, will be applicable to us. Furthermore, because the applicability of the Statement depends in large part on the specific investor, we may not know at any given point of time whether the Statement applies to any investor and, accordingly, to us. Each investor must make its own determination concerning whether the Statement applies to it and its investment in us. Each investor is cautioned to consult its own legal advisors concerning such matters. We cannot assure investors that the Statement will not be applicable to us.28Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.