D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, Honda’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading prices of Honda’s common stock and American Depositary Shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks not currently known to Honda or that Honda now deems immaterial may also harm Honda and affect your investment. Risks Relating to the Great East Japan Earthquake and its Aftermath The Great East Japan Earthquake occurred on March 11, 2011 and the Fukushima’s nuclear power plant disaster have caused and will continue to cause significant damage to the Japanese economy. After March 11, 2011, Honda temporarily suspended or reduced production at Honda’s automobile plants in and outside of Japan. However, the production in Japan has in general returned to normal levels since late June, and production outside of Japan is expected to be generally normalized from around August to September. In addition, although Honda’s business sites, such as Honda’s R&D subsidiaries located in Tochigi Prefecture, were heavily damaged, currently we expect them to be restored. Although prospects for restoration of business activities have become clear, as mentioned above, Honda’s production activities may be affected depending on the status of the future supply of certain parts for which supply is currently restricted, and on the status of infrastructure, such as the supply of electricity and logistics services. Furthermore, sales in domestic and international markets may decline. Depending on the magnitude of these effects, Honda’s results of operations may be adversely affected. 3 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Honda’s Industry Honda may be adversely affected by market conditions Honda conducts its operations in Japan and throughout the world, including North America, Europe and Asia. A sustained loss of consumer confidence in these markets, which may be caused by continued economic slowdown, recession, changes in consumer preferences, rising fuel prices, financial crisis or other factors could trigger a decline in demand for automobiles, motorcycles and power products that may adversely affect Honda’s results of operations. Prices for automobiles, motorcycles and power products can be volatile Prices for automobiles, motorcycles and power products in certain markets may experience sharp changes over short periods of time. This volatility is caused by many factors, including fierce competition, which is increasing, short-term fluctuations in demand from instability in underlying economic conditions, changes in tariffs, import regulations and other taxes, shortages of certain materials and components, high material prices and sales incentives by Honda or other manufacturers or dealers. There can be no assurance that such price volatility will not continue or intensify or that price volatility will not occur in markets that to date have not experienced such volatility. Overcapacity within the industry has increased and will likely continue to increase if the economic downturn continues in Honda’s major markets or worldwide, leading, potentially, to further increased price pressure. Price volatility in any or all of Honda’s markets could adversely affect Honda’s results of operations in a particular period. Risks Relating to Honda’s Business Generally Currency and Interest Rate Risks Honda’s operations are subject to currency fluctuations Honda has manufacturing operations throughout the world, including Japan, and exports products and components to various countries. Honda purchases materials and components and sells its products and components in foreign currencies. Therefore, currency fluctuations may affect Honda’s pricing of products sold and materials purchased. Accordingly, currency fluctuations have an effect on Honda’s results of operations and financial condition, as well as Honda’s competitiveness, which will over time affect its results. Since Honda exports many products and components, particularly from Japan, and generates a substantial portion of its revenues in currencies other than the Japanese yen, Honda’s results of operations would be adversely affected by an appreciation of the Japanese yen against other currencies, in particular the U.S. dollar. Honda’s hedging of currency and interest rate risk exposes Honda to other risks Although it is impossible to hedge against all currency or interest rate risk, Honda uses derivative financial instruments in order to reduce the substantial effects of currency fluctuations and interest rate exposure on our cash flow and financial condition. These instruments include foreign currency forward contracts, currency swap agreements and currency option contracts, as well as interest rate swap agreements. Honda has entered into, and expects to continue to enter into, such hedging arrangements. As with all hedging instruments, there are risks associated with the use of such instruments. While limiting to some degree our risk fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates by utilizing such hedging instruments, Honda potentially forgoes benefits that might result from other fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. Honda is also exposed to the risk that its counterparties to hedging contracts will default on their obligations. Honda manages exposure to counterparty 4 Table of Contents credit risk by limiting the counterparties to major international banks and financial institutions meeting established credit guidelines. However, any default by such counterparties might have an adverse effect on Honda. Legal and Regulatory Risks The automobile, motorcycle and power product industries are subject to extensive environmental and other governmental regulations, including with respect to global climate changes Regulations regarding vehicle emission levels, fuel economy, noise and safety and noxious substances, as well as levels of pollutants from production plants, are extensive within the automobile, motorcycle and power product industries. These regulations are subject to change, and are often made more restrictive, particularly in recent years, due to an increasing concern with respect to possible global climate changes. The costs to comply with these regulations can be significant to Honda’s operations. Honda is reliant on the protection and preservation of its intellectual property Honda owns or otherwise has rights in a number of patents and trademarks relating to the products it manufactures, which have been obtained over a period of years. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of Honda’s business and may continue to be of value in the future. Honda does not regard any of its businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents. However, an inability to protect this intellectual property generally, or the illegal infringement of some or a large group of Honda’s intellectual property rights, would have an adverse effect on Honda’s operations. Honda is subject to legal proceedings Honda is and could be subject to suits, investigations and proceedings under relevant laws and regulations of various jurisdictions. A negative outcome in any of the legal proceedings pending against Honda could adversely affect Honda’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Honda’s Operations Honda’s financial services business conducts business under highly competitive conditions in an industry with inherent risks Honda’s financial services business offers various financing plans to its customers designed to increase the opportunity for sales of its products and to generate financing income. However, customers can also obtain financing for the lease or purchase of Honda’s products through a variety of other sources that compete with our financing services, including commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. The financial services offered by us also involve credit risk as well as risks relating to lease residual values, cost of capital and access to funding. Competition for customers and/or these risks may affect Honda’s results of operations in the future. Honda relies on various suppliers for the provision of certain raw materials and components Honda purchases raw materials, and certain components and parts, from numerous external suppliers, and relies on some key suppliers for some items and the raw materials it uses in the manufacture of its products. Honda’s ability to continue to obtain these supplies in an efficient and cost-effective manner is subject to a number of factors, some of which are not within Honda’s control. These factors include the ability of its suppliers to provide a continued source of supply and Honda’s ability to compete with other users in obtaining the supplies. Loss of a key supplier in particular may affect our production and increase our costs. Honda conducts its operations in various regions of the world Honda conducts its businesses worldwide, and in several countries, Honda conducts businesses through joint ventures with local entities, in part due to the legal and other requirements of those countries. These businesses 5 Table of Contents are subject to various regulations, including the legal and other requirements of each country. If these regulations or the business conditions or policies of these local entities change, it may have an adverse affect on Honda’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Honda may be adversely affected by wars, use of force by foreign countries, terrorism, multinational conflicts, political uncertainty, natural disasters, epidemics and labor strikes Honda conducts its businesses worldwide, and its operations may variously be subject to wars, use of force by foreign countries, terrorism, multinational conflicts, political uncertainty, natural disasters, epidemics, labor strikes and other events beyond our control which may delay or disrupt Honda’s local operations in the affected regions, including the purchase of raw materials and parts, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. Delays or disruptions in one region may in turn affect our global operations. If such delay or disruption occurs and continues for a long period of time, Honda’s business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Honda may be adversely affected by inadvertent disclosure of confidential information Although Honda maintains internal controls through established procedures to keep confidential information including personal information of its customers and relating parties, such information may be inadvertently disclosed. If this occurs, Honda may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, claims for damages from the customers or parties affected. Also, inadvertent disclosure of confidential business or technical information to third parties may result in a loss of Honda’s competitiveness. Risks Relating to Pension Costs and Other Postretirement Benefits Honda has pension plans and provides other post-retirement benefits. The amounts of pension benefits, lump-sum payments and other post-retirement benefits are primarily based on the combination of years of service and compensation. The funding policy is to make periodic contributions as required by applicable regulations. Benefit obligations and pension costs are based on assumptions of many factors, including the discount rate, the rate of salary increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Differences in actual expenses and costs or changes in assumptions could affect Honda’s pension costs and benefit obligations, including Honda’s cash requirements to fund such obligations, which could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. A holder of ADSs will have fewer rights than a shareholder has and such holder will have to act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take various actions, including exercising voting rights inherent in their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining a company’s accounting books and records, and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to holders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the record holder of the Shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited Shares. The depositary will make efforts to exercise votes regarding the Shares underlying the ADSs as instructed by the holders and will pay to the holders the dividends and distributions collected from the Company. However, in the capacity as an ADS holder, such holder will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books or records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions The Company’s Articles of Incorporation, Regulations of the Board of Directors, Regulations of the Board of Corporate Auditors and the Company Law of Japan (the “Company Law”) govern corporate affairs of the Company. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and 6 Table of Contents officers’ fiduciary duties, and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply if the Company were a U.S. company. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of the United States. A ADS holder may have more difficulty in asserting his/her rights as a shareholder than such ADS holder would as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. In addition, Japanese courts may not be willing to enforce liabilities against the Company in actions brought in Japan that are based upon the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. Because of daily price range limitations under Japanese stock exchange rules, a holder of ADSs may not be able to sell his/her shares of the Company’s Common Stock at a particular price on any particular trading day, or at all Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market makers to guide price formation. To prevent excessive volatility, these exchanges set daily upward and downward price fluctuation limits for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his or her shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. U.S. investors may have difficulty in serving process or enforcing a judgment against the Company or its directors, executive officers or corporate auditors The Company is a limited liability, joint stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of its directors, executive officers and corporate auditors reside in Japan. All or substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or these persons or to enforce against the Company or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. Courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgment of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. The Company’s shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate The customary dividend payout practice and relevant regulatory regime of publicly listed companies in Japan may differ from that followed in foreign markets. The Company’s dividend payout practice is no exception. While the Company may announce forecasts of year-end and quarterly dividends prior to the record date, these forecasts are not legally binding. The actual payment of year-end dividends requires a resolution of the Company’s shareholders. If the shareholders adopt such a resolution, the year-end dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record date, which is currently specified as March 31 by the Company’s Articles of Incorporation. However, such a resolution of the shareholders is usually made at an ordinary general meeting of shareholders held in June. The payment of quarterly dividends requires a resolution of the Company’s board of directors. If the board adopts such a resolution, the dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record dates, which are currently specified as June 30, September 30 and December 31 by the Articles of Incorporation. However, the board usually does not adopt a resolution with respect to a quarterly dividend until after the respective record dates. Shareholders of record as of an applicable record date may sell shares after the record date in anticipation of receiving a certain dividend payment based on the previously announced forecasts. However, since these forecasts are not legally binding and resolutions to pay dividends are usually not adopted until after the record date, our shareholders of record on record dates for year-end and quarterly dividends may not receive the dividend they anticipate. 7 Table of Contents Cautionary statement with respect to forward looking statements in this Annual Report This Annual Report includes “forward looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report are based on the current assumptions and beliefs of Honda in light of the information currently available to it, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause Honda’s actual results, performance, achievements or financial position to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors are generally set forth in Item 3.D “Risk Factors” and include, without limitation: • the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011 and Fukushima’s nuclear power plant disaster; • the political, economic and social conditions in Japan and throughout the world including North America, Europe and Asia, including economic slowdowns, recessions, changes in consumer preferences, rising fuel prices, financial crises and other factors, as well as the relevant governments’ specific policies with respect to economic growth, inflation, taxation, currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies and the availability of credit, particularly to the extent such current or future conditions and policies affect the automobile, motorcycle and power product industries and markets in Japan and other markets throughout the world in which Honda conducts its business, and the demand, sales volume and sales prices for Honda’s automobiles, motorcycles and power products; • the effects of competition in the automobile, motorcycle and power product markets on the demand, sales volume and sales prices for Honda’s automobiles, motorcycles and power products; • Honda’s ability to finance its working capital and capital expenditure requirements, including obtaining any required external debt or other financing; • the effects of economic stagnation or recession in Honda’s principal markets and of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on Honda’s results of operations; and • the effects of environmental and other governmental regulations and legal proceedings. Honda undertakes no obligation and has no intention to publicly update any forward-looking statement after the date of this Annual Report. Investors are advised to consult any further disclosures by Honda in its subsequent filings pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 