D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, Honda’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading prices of Honda’s common stock and American Depositary Shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks not currently known to Honda or that Honda now deems immaterial may also harm Honda and affect your investment. Risks Relating to Honda’s Industry Honda may be adversely affected by market conditions Honda conducts its operations in Japan and throughout the world, including North America, Europe and Asia. A sustained loss of consumer confidence in these markets, which may be caused by an extended economic slowdown, recession, changes in consumer preferences, rising fuel prices, financial crisis or other factors could trigger a decline in demand for motorcycles, automobiles and power products that may adversely affect Honda’s results. 3 Table of Contents Prices for products may fluctuate Prices for motorcycles, automobiles and power products in certain markets may experience sharp changes over short periods of time. This volatility may be caused by various factors, including fierce competition, short-term fluctuations in demand caused by instability in underlying economic conditions, changes in tariffs, import regulations and other taxes, shortages of certain materials and parts, a steep rise in material prices and sales incentives. There is no guarantee that such price volatility will not continue for an extended period of time or that price volatility will not occur in markets that to date have not experienced such volatility. Overcapacity within the industry has increased and will likely continue to increase if the economic downturn continues in Honda’s major markets, leading, potentially, to further increased price volatility. Price volatility in any of Honda’s markets could adversely affect Honda’s results. Risks Relating to Honda’s Business in General Currency and Interest Rate Risks Honda’s operations are subject to currency fluctuations Honda has manufacturing operations throughout the world, including Japan, and exports products and components to various countries. Honda purchases materials and components and sells its products and components in foreign currencies. Therefore, currency fluctuations could affect Honda’s pricing of materials purchased and products sold. Accordingly, currency fluctuations have an effect on Honda’s results and financial condition, as well as Honda’s competitiveness, which will over time affect its results. Legal and Regulatory Risks Honda is subject to various governmental regulations Honda conducts business operations in countries worldwide. As such, changes in regulations in these countries related to the environment, safety, quality, labor, taxes, currency, exports and imports or other factors could adversely affect Honda’s business, financial condition, or results. Honda is reliant on the protection and preservation of its intellectual property Honda owns or otherwise has rights in a number of patents and trademarks relating to the products it manufactures, which have been obtained over a period of years. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of Honda’s business and will continue to be of value in the future. Honda does not regard any of its business operations as being dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents. However, an inability to protect this intellectual property generally, or the illegal infringement of some or a large group of Honda’s intellectual property rights, could have an adverse effect on Honda’s operations. Honda may be subject to legal proceedings Honda could be subject to suits, investigations and proceedings under relevant laws and regulations of various jurisdictions. A negative outcome in any such legal proceedings brought against Honda could adversely affect Honda’s business, financial condition or results. Risks Relating to Honda’s Operations Honda’s Financial services business conducts business under highly competitive conditions in an industry with inherent risks Honda’s Financial services business offers various financing plans to its customers designed to increase the opportunity for sales of its products. However, customers can also obtain financing for the lease or purchase of 4 Table of Contents Honda’s products through a variety of other sources that compete with our financing services, including commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. The financial services offered by Honda involve credit risk as well as risks relating to lease residual values, cost of capital and access to funding. Competition for customers and/or these risks may affect Honda’s results. Honda relies on external suppliers for the provision of certain raw materials and parts Honda purchases raw materials and parts from numerous external suppliers, and relies on certain suppliers for some of the raw materials and parts which it uses in the manufacture of its products. Honda’s ability to continue to obtain these supplies in an efficient and cost-effective manner is subject to a number of factors, some of which are outside of Honda’s control. These factors include the ability of its suppliers to provide a continued source of raw materials and parts and Honda’s ability to compete with other users in obtaining the supplies. In particular, the loss of a key supplier could affect our production and increase our costs. Honda relies on business alliances and joint ventures with other companies Honda engages in business operations through alliances and joint ventures with other companies in expectation of synergy effects and increased efficiency, or in accordance with requirements from the countries in which Honda conducts its businesses. However, if disagreements occur between the parties to an alliance or joint venture, or if an alliance or joint venture is changed or cancelled, it may have an adverse effect on Honda’s business, financial condition, or results. Honda may be adversely affected by wars, terrorism, political uncertainty and labor strikes Honda conducts business operations in countries worldwide and is exposed to risks including wars, terrorism, political uncertainty and labor strikes in those countries or neighboring regions. If such unforeseeable events occur, and operations are delayed or suspended, Honda’s business, financial condition, or results could be adversely affected. Honda may be adversely affected by natural disasters In order to minimize the impact on its business operations when events such as large-scale natural disasters, accidents, or the outbreak of infectious diseases occur, Honda conducts a risk evaluation of these events and constructs business continuity plans (BCPs) in each region. However, if operations are delayed or suspended due to the occurrence of disasters, accidents, or the outbreak of infectious diseases that exceed assumptions, Honda’s business, financial condition or results could be adversely affected. Honda may be adversely affected by inadvertent disclosure of confidential information Although Honda maintains internal controls through established procedures to protect confidential information, including personal information of its customers and related parties, such information could be inadvertently disclosed. If this occurs, Honda could be subject to, and could be adversely affected by, claims for damages from the customers or parties affected. Also, inadvertent disclosure of confidential business or technical information to third parties could also result in a loss of Honda’s competitiveness. Honda is subject to risks relating to its obligations to provide post-employment benefits Honda has various pension plans and provides other post-employment benefits, in which the amount of benefits is basically determined based on the level of salary, service years, and other factors. Contributions are also regularly reviewed and adjusted as necessary to the extent permitted by laws and regulations. Defined benefit obligations and defined benefit costs are based on assumptions of many factors, including the discount rate and the rate of salary increase. Changes in assumptions could affect Honda’s defined benefit costs and obligations, including Honda’s cash requirements to fund such obligations in the future, which could materially affect Honda’s financial condition and results. 5 Table of Contents Honda’s success depends in part on the value of its brand image, which could be diminished by product defects One of the important factors behind corporate sustainability is trust and support for the Honda brand from our customers, society and the communities in which Honda conducts business operations. With respect to the quality of our products, which serves as the pillar of our brand image, we recognize that our mainstay products provide personal mobility and touch human lives, so we place top priority on the safety and security of our customers and constantly strive to further enhance the quality of our development, production and service-related activities. However, if for some unforeseeable reason a product defect does occur, from the standpoint of assuring the safety and security of our customers, it is possible that Honda will issue a recall or take some other action considered to be appropriate. In such an event, the Honda brand image could be damaged and this could adversely impact Honda’s business operations as well as our results. A holder of ADSs will have fewer rights than a shareholder has and such holder will have to act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take various actions, including exercising voting rights inherent in their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining a company’s accounting books and records, and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to holders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the record holder of the Shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited Shares. The depositary will make efforts to exercise votes regarding the Shares underlying the ADSs as instructed by the holders and will pay to the holders the dividends and distributions collected from the Company. However, in the capacity as an ADS holder, such holder will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books or records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions The Company’s Articles of Incorporation, Regulations of the Board of Directors, Regulations of the Board of Corporate Auditors and the Company Law of Japan (the “Company Law”) govern corporate affairs of the Company. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties, and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply if the Company were a U.S. company. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of the United States. An ADS holder may have more difficulty in asserting his/her rights as a shareholder than such an ADS holder would as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. In addition, Japanese courts may not be willing to enforce liabilities against the Company in actions brought in Japan that are based upon the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. Because of daily price range limitations under Japanese stock exchange rules, a holder of ADSs may not be able to sell his/her shares of the Company’s Common Stock at a particular price on any particular trading day, or at all Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market makers to guide price formation. To prevent excessive volatility, these exchanges set daily upward and downward price fluctuation limits for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his or her shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. 6 Table of Contents U.S. investors may have difficulty in serving process or enforcing a judgment against the Company or its directors, executive officers or corporate auditors The Company is a limited liability, joint stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of its directors, executive officers and corporate auditors reside in Japan. All or substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or these persons or to enforce against the Company or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgment of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. The Company’s shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate The customary dividend payout practice and relevant regulatory regime of publicly listed companies in Japan may differ from that followed in foreign markets. The Company’s dividend payout practice is no exception. While the Company may announce forecasts of year-end and quarterly dividends prior to the record date, these forecasts are not legally binding. The actual payment of year-end dividends requires a resolution of the Company’s shareholders. If the shareholders adopt such a resolution, the year-end dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record date, which is currently specified as March 31 by the Company’s Articles of Incorporation. However, such a resolution of the shareholders is usually made at an ordinary general meeting of shareholders held in June. The payment of quarterly dividends requires a resolution of the Company’s Board of Directors. If the board adopts such a resolution, the dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record dates, which are currently specified as June 30, September 30 and December 31 by the Articles of Incorporation. However, the board usually does not adopt a resolution with respect to a quarterly dividend until after the respective record dates. Shareholders of record as of an applicable record date may sell shares after the record date in anticipation of receiving a certain dividend payment based on the previously announced forecasts. However, since these forecasts are not legally binding and resolutions to pay dividends are usually not adopted until after the record date, our shareholders of record on record dates for year-end and quarterly dividends may not receive the dividend they anticipate. Cautionary statement with respect to forward looking statements in this Annual Report This Annual Report includes “forward looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The forward looking statements included in this Annual Report are based on the current assumptions and beliefs of Honda in light of the information currently available to it, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause Honda’s actual results, performance, achievements or financial position to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors are generally set forth in Item 3.D “Risk Factors” and include, without limitation: • the political, economic and social conditions in Japan and throughout the world including North America, Europe and Asia, including economic slowdowns, recessions, changes in consumer preferences, rising fuel prices, financial crises and other factors, as well as the relevant governments’ specific policies with respect to economic growth, inflation, taxation, currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies and the availability of credit, particularly to the extent such current or future conditions and policies affect the automobile, motorcycle and power product industries and markets in Japan and other markets throughout the world in which Honda conducts its business, and the demand, sales volume and sales prices for Honda’s automobiles, motorcycles and power products; 7 Table of Contents • the effects of competition in the automobile, motorcycle and power product markets on the demand, sales volume and sales prices for Honda’s automobiles, motorcycles and power products; • Honda’s ability to finance its working capital and capital expenditure requirements, including obtaining any required external debt or other financing; • the effects of economic stagnation or recession in Honda’s principal markets and of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on Honda’s results of operations; and • the effects of environmental and other governmental regulations and legal proceedings. Honda undertakes no obligation and has no intention to publicly update any forward looking statement after the date of this Annual Report. Investors are advised to consult any further disclosures by Honda in its subsequent filings pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 