ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Significant increases in the costs associated with its direct mail business could negatively affect results of operations. The Company incurs substantial costs associated with its catalog mailings, including paper, postage, and human resource costs associated with catalog layout and design, production and circulation and increased inventories. The cost of printing, paper and postage are governed by contracts and other long term arrangements which serve to mitigate the risk of sudden or unexpected increases. Most of these costs are incurred prior to mailing. As a result, it is not possible to adjust the costs of a particular advertising mailing to reflect the actual subsequent performance of the mailing. Since the direct mail business accounts for the majority of total net sales, any performance shortcomings experienced by the direct mail business, such as the damage or delay of delivery of catalogs or errors therein, would likely have a material adverse effect on the overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Net sales could be negatively impacted by a decline in response rates to advertising promotions, by a decline in operating results or a reduction in the customer file. Response rates are impacted by the Company’s ability to continually develop and/or select the right merchandise assortment, maintain appropriate inventory levels and creatively present merchandise in a way that is appealing to customers. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty, as they continually change and vary from region to region. On average, the design process for apparel is initiated nine to ten months before merchandise is available to customers. Further, purchase commitments are made four to six months in advance. These lead times make it difficult to respond quickly to changing consumer preferences and magnify the consequences of any misjudgments made in anticipating customer preferences. Consequently, if the Company misjudges customer merchandise preferences or purchasing habits, sales may decline 3 Table of Contents significantly, and markdowns may be required to significantly lower prices in order to sell excess inventory, which would result in lower margins. Response rates to advertising promotions and, as a result, the net sales generated by each promotion, can be affected by other factors beyond the Company’s control such as weak economic conditions, and unseasonable weather in key geographic markets. In addition, a portion of all advertising promotions are to prospective customers. These promotions involve risks not present in promotions to existing customers, including lower and less predictable response rates. Additionally, it has become more difficult for the Company and other direct marketers to obtain quality prospect mailing lists, which may limit the Company’s ability to maintain the size of its active customer file. Lower response rates could result in lower-than-expected full-price sales, higher inventory levels and/or subsequently higher-than-expected clearance sales at substantially reduced margins. In addition, the Company faces substantial competition from discount retailers for basic elements in the merchandise lines, and net sales may decline or grow at a reduced pace if it is unable to differentiate its merchandise and shopping experience from discount retailers. Further, the retail apparel industry has experienced significant price deflation over the past several years largely due to the downward pressure on retail prices caused by discount retailers. The Company’s sales, revenue and operating income may be adversely impacted by changes in minimum customer credit scores determined by a third party. Historically, Blair has managed its own credit portfolio and set the minimum credit scores a consumer must have to be entitled to purchase Blair merchandise on credit. Blair sold its receivables portfolio to World Financial Capital Bank, an industrial bank subsidiary of Alliance Data Systems Corporation in November, 2005, and going forward they will have discretion over the minimum credit score necessary to be eligible to purchase Blair merchandise on credit. If the bank decides to raise the applicable credit rating standards, certain consumers will no longer qualify to purchase Blair merchandise on credit, which could lower sales thereby lowering revenue and operating income. Consumer concerns about purchasing items via the Internet as well as external or internal infrastructure system failures could negatively impact e-commerce sales and costs. The e-commerce business is vulnerable to consumer privacy concerns relating to purchasing items over the Internet, security breaches, and failures of Internet infrastructure and communications systems. If consumer confidence in making purchases over the Internet declines as a result of privacy or other concerns, e-commerce sales could decline. The Company may be required to incur increased costs in order to address any system failures or security breaches. The Company’s net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis. The Company experiences seasonal fluctuations in its net sales and operating income. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory. If we are not successful in selling inventory we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all. The Company’s sales and reputation depend on key vendors for timely and effective sourcing and delivery of quality merchandise. As a direct marketer, business depends largely on the ability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. The Company generally maintains non-exclusive relationships with multiple vendors that manufacture its merchandise. However, there are no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to the Company at any time. If the Company was required to change vendors or if a key vendor was unable to timely supply desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, delays in filling customer orders could be experienced resulting in lost sales and a decline in customer satisfaction. The Company’s increasing reliance on direct sourcing from foreign vendors may negatively impact the cost to source and deliver merchandise. As it continues to diversify merchandise sourcing opportunities, the Company expects to increase its investment in product development and source more merchandise directly from foreign vendors. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company was importer of record on approximately 32% of total merchandise purchases. The increased volume of purchases will further expose the Company to new and greater risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could substantially impact the Company’s ability to source merchandise through foreign vendors and to realize any perceived cost savings. Considerations include, among other things: 4 Table of Contents • Failure of foreign vendors to adhere to quality assurance standards or standards for conducting business; • Changing or uncertain economic conditions, political uncertainties or unrest, or epidemics or other health or weather-related events in foreign countries resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries; • Restrictions on the transfer of funds or transportation delays or interruptions; and • Delays or cancellation of shipments as a result of geopolitical factors or other events related to factory or shipping lines. The Company enforces a code of conduct that sets guidelines for vendors regarding employment practices such as wages and benefits, health and safety, working hours and working age, and for environmental, ethical and legal matters. Although management believes it is allocating appropriate resources to monitor compliance with such standards, if management or an outside third party discovers that any of the Company’s vendors are engaged in practices that materially violate vendor code of conduct or other generally accepted social responsibility standards, sales could be materially affected by any resulting negative publicity. The Company may be unable to fill customer orders efficiently, which could negatively impact customer satisfaction. If the Company is unable to efficiently process and fill customer orders, customers may cancel or refuse to accept orders, and customer satisfaction could be harmed. Considerations include, among other things: • Failures in the efficient and uninterrupted operation of customer service call centers or the Company’s sole distribution center, including system failures caused by telecommunications systems providers and order volumes that exceed present telephone or Internet system capabilities; • Delays or failures in the performance of third parties, such as shipping companies and the U.S. postal and customs services, including delays associated with labor disputes, labor union activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, health epidemics and possible acts of terrorism; and • Disruptions or slowdowns in order processing or fulfillment systems resulting from increased security measures implemented by U.S. customs, or from homeland security measures, telephone or Internet down times, system failures, computer viruses, electrical outages, mechanical problems, human error or accidents, fire, natural disasters or comparable events. The Company’s success is dependent upon its senior management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the business. Furthermore, the location of the Company’s corporate headquarters outside of a major metropolitan area may make it more difficult to replace key employees who leave, or to add qualified employees needed to manage growth opportunities. Any determination that the Company has a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting could have a negative impact on stock price. Management continues to apply significant management and financial resources to document, test, monitor and enhance internal control over financial reporting in order to meet the ongoing requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. In addition, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control may vary over time. Management cannot be certain that internal control systems will be adequate or effective in preventing fraud or human error. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could have a material effect on financial reporting or cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations, which upon disclosure, could negatively impact the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s stock price is susceptible to significant fluctuation. Blair’s stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of limited public float or as a result of quarter-to-quarter variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of Blair or other companies in the retail industry or markets served by Blair. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Changes in the Company’s business model will distort comparison of prior year financial results. In November 2005, the Company sold its proprietary credit portfolio to a third party. As a result of this sale, the financial results of the Company will no longer reflect finance charge revenue on time payment accounts, provisions for doubtful accounts and overhead costs associated with servicing the proprietary credit program. As a result, 2006 period-to-period comparisons of its prior year results may be viewed negatively. 5 Table of Contents The Company’s business, results of operations and future financial performance will depend on the risk factors listed above, as well as other risk factors not currently known to management and the board of directors that may arise in the future. Any one or more of these risk factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 