Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: • We have experienced significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations and they may continue. We have had net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since our inception, and we may continue to incur substantial losses and experience substantial negative cash flows from operations. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses in developing our encryption and flat panel display technologies and in our efforts to produce commercially marketable products incorporating our technology. We have had limited sales of products to support our operations from inception through October 31, 2011. We have set forth below our net losses, research and development expenses and net cash used in operations for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2011 and 2010: Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2011 2010 Net loss $ 7,378,036 $ 5,175,131 Research and development expenses 3,124,773 3,007,459 Net cash used in operations 716,000 2,405,817 • We may need additional funding in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms and, if available, may result in dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we will require additional funding to continue our research and development activities and market our products. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments in U.S. government securities and certificates of deposit, and accounts receivable, together with cash flows from expected sales of our encryption products and revenue relating to our display technologies, and other potential sources of cash flows, will be sufficient to enable us to continue our marketing, production, and research and development activities for at least 12 months. However, our projections of future cash needs and cash flows may differ from actual results. If current cash and cash that may be generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell our investment securities or other financial assets or our debt or additional equity securities or obtain loans from various financial institutions where possible. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt could result in dilution to our stockholders. It is also management’s intention to continue to compensate employees and consultants by issuing stock or stock options. We currently have no arrangements with respect to additional financing. We can give no assurances that we will generate sufficient revenues in the future (through sales, license fees and royalties, or otherwise) to satisfy our liquidity requirements or sustain future operations, that our production capabilities will be adequate, that other products will not be produced by other companies that will render our products obsolete, that employees and consultants will continue to accept stock as compensation, or that other sources of funding, such as sales of equity or debt, would be available, if needed, on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain such funding if needed, we would need to curtail or cease some or all of our operations. 12 Table of Contents • We may not generate sufficient revenue to support our operations in the future or to generate profits. Our principal operations include the development, production and marketing of thin flat display technologies, including low-voltage phosphor color displays and low-power passive E-Paper® displays, and the development, production and marketing of multi-functional encryption products that provide information security for domestic and international users over several communications media. In May 2008, we began receiving license fees related to our display technology from Videocon pursuant to the Videocon License Agreement. The Videocon License Agreement provides for payment of license fees as well as the payment of certain royalties based on sales of products containing our display technology. However, we have agreed to defer certain license fee payments (as described more fully in “Item 1. Business”) and we presently anticipate that ongoing improvements to our display technology and our current discussions with Videocon concerning additional licensees will likely result in future modifications of the timing of payments from Videocon. In June 2011, we received an initial license fee from AUO related to our display technologies pursuant to the AUO License Agreements. The AUO License Agreements also provide for payment of additional license fees upon completion of certain conditions for the respective technologies and, in addition, provide for the basis for royalty payments by AUO to CopyTele. We can give no assurances as to when, if ever, that we will receive any additional license fees or royalty payments from Videocon or AUO. In addition, our arrangements with Videocon and AUO involve counterparty risk. Our encryption products are only in their initial stages of commercial production. Our investments in research and development are considerable. Our ability to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations in the future or to generate profits will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • Our and Videocon’s ability to implement our technology for Videocon to produce and market products containing our displays. • Our and AUO’s ability to implement our technology for AUO to produce and market products containing our displays. • Our ability to enter into license agreements with other third parties to utilize our technology in their products. • The capability of Volga, with whom we have been working for fourteen years, to produce color and monochrome displays and supply them to us. • Our ability to successfully market our line of encryption products. • Our production capabilities and those of our suppliers as required for the production of our encryption products. • Long-term performance of our products. • The capability of our dealers and distributors to adequately service our encryption products. • Our ability to maintain an acceptable pricing level to end-users for both our encryption and display products. 13 Table of Contents • The ability of suppliers to meet our and Videocon’s or AUO’s requirements and schedules. • Our ability to successfully develop other new products under development, including our thin, flat, low-power passive display technology. • Rapidly changing consumer preferences. • The possible development of competitive products that could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. • Our future negotiations with Videocon and Volga with respect to payments and other arrangements with Volga. • Our ability to successfully implement and commercialize our E-Paper® display technology. Because our revenue is subject to fluctuation, we may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If we have a shortfall in revenue in relation to expenses, our operating results would suffer. Our operating results for any particular fiscal year may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on year-to-year comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. • The loss of Videocon or AUO as customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. All of our net revenue in our Display Technology Segment and approximately 87% of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2011 came from AUO and all of our net revenue in our Display Technology Segment and approximately 82% of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2010 came from Videocon. The loss of either of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our customer relationships with Videocon and AUO or they may delay performance under, or fail to comply with, the payment terms of their agreements, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Any reduction in the amount of revenue that we derive from Videocon or AUO, without an offsetting increase in new sales to other customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Timing of payments pursuant to the AUO License Agreements are dependent upon completion of certain conditions which we cannot assure you will occur on a timely basis or at all. Our receipt of the additional $7 million of license fees from AUO is subject to completion of certain conditions for the respective technologies. We cannot presently estimate when, if ever, such conditions will be satisfied. Therefore the future payment dates for the additional license fee payments is uncertain. 14 Table of Contents • Future modifications of the timing of payments pursuant to the Videocon License Agreement could occur that might materially affect which future periods in which revenues are recognized. Under the terms of the Videocon License Agreement, we were scheduled to receive a license fee of $11 million from Videocon, payable in installments over a 27 month period. The initial installment commenced in May 2008, however certain license fee payments have been subsequently deferred in light of our joint decision to jointly develop improved versions of our Nano Display technology and the additional time and effort required by Videocon and us to incorporate the developmental improvements related thereto which are aimed at reducing the power consumption, improving the reliability and lowering the fabrication cost. However, the aggregate amount of the payments did not change and Videocon’s obligation to make such payments remains in effect. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2010 we received license fee payments from Videocon of $600,000. No such license fee payments were received from Videocon during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2011. As of October 31, 2011, we have received aggregate license fee payments from Videocon of $3.2 million. With our Nano Display License Agreement with AUO, we have concentrated our technical support to AUO to implement our Nano Display technology utilizing AUO’s facilities. Under the Nano Display License Agreement, Videocon has the potential to receive the Nano Displays produced by AUO and to incorporate the displays into their own products. As a result, we are presently in discussions with Videocon to enter into a new arrangement for us to receive the remaining or further license payments from Videocon. Accordingly, we cannot presently estimate specific future payment dates for the license fee payments. • A substantial portion of our current and future expected business is with Videocon (an Indian company) and AUO (a Taiwanese company) and accordingly, we are faced with the inherent risks of doing business in a foreign country. There are risks inherent in doing business in a foreign country. Risks of doing business in a foreign country could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks include, but are not limited to, unpredictable changes in or application of taxation regulations, foreign exchange controls, uncertain or unpredictable political, legal and economic environments and invalidity of government approvals. The occurrence of one or more of these events or a change in existing policy could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, earnings, results of operations, and financial condition. These risks may limit or disrupt our operations, restrict the movement of funds or impair contract rights. In addition, the Videocon License Agreement is governed by the law of India and accordingly, in the event of a dispute regarding the Videocon License Agreement, it may be necessary for us to resolve such dispute in India or another foreign country, where we would be faced with unfamiliar laws and procedures. The resolution of disputes in foreign countries can be costly and time consuming, similar to the situation in the United States. However, in a foreign country, we face the additional burden of understanding unfamiliar laws and procedures. We may not be entitled to a jury trial, as we might be in the United States. Further, to litigate or arbitrate in a foreign country, we would be faced with the necessity of hiring lawyers and other professionals who are familiar with the foreign laws. For these reasons, we may incur unforeseen expenses if we are forced to resolve a dispute in India or any other foreign country. 15 Table of Contents • Our arrangements with Videocon involve market risks. At the same time as we entered into the Videocon License Agreement, we entered into the Share Subscription Agreement with Mars Overseas, to purchase the 20,000,000 CopyTele Shares, and our subsidiary, CopyTele International entered into the GDR Purchase Agreement to purchase the 1,495,845 Videocon GDRs. The value of the Videocon GDRs owned by us depends upon, among other things, the value of Videocon’s securities in its home market of India, as well as exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Indian rupee (the currency in which Videocon’s securities are traded in its home market). Based on both the duration and the continuing magnitude of the market price declines and the uncertainty of recovery, we recorded other than temporary impairments as of October 31, 2009 and 2011. We can give no assurances that the value of the Videocon GDRs will not decline in the future and future write downs may occur. In addition, for the purpose of effecting a lock up of the Videocon GDRs and CopyTele Shares (collectively, the “Securities”) for a period of seven years, and therefore restricting both parties from selling or transferring the Securities during such period, CopyTele International and Mars Overseas entered into two Loan and Pledge Agreements. The Videocon GDRs are to be held as security for a loan in the principal amount of $5,000,000 from Mars Overseas to CopyTele International, and the CopyTele Shares are similarly held as security for a loan in the principal amount of $5,000,000 from CopyTele International to Mars Overseas. The loans are for a term of seven years, do not bear interest and prepayment of the loans will not release the lien on the Securities prior to the end of the seven year period. The loan agreements also provide for customary events of default which may result in forfeiture of the Securities by the defaulting party. We can give no assurances that the respective parties receiving such loans will not default on such loans. • Our arrangements with Volga involve liquidity and market risks. At the same time as we entered into the Volga License Agreement in September 2009, we acquired a 19.9% ownership interest in Volga in exchange for 150,000 unregistered shares of our common stock. The Volga shares are not publicly traded and there is no assurance that we will be able to sell the shares at an acceptable price, if at all. • We are dependent upon a few key employees and the loss of their services could adversely affect us. Our future success is dependent on our ability to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of our Chief Executive Officer, Denis A. Krusos, who is engaged in the management and operations of our business, including all aspects of the development, production and marketing of our encryption products and flat panel display technology. In addition, Mr. Krusos, as well as our other skilled management and technical personnel, are important to our future business and financial arrangements. We do not have an employment agreement with, nor do we maintain “key person” life insurance on, Mr. Krusos. The loss of the services of any such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 16 Table of Contents • A substantial portion of the Company’s material products have not been incorporated into commercially marketable products, have not generated any product revenue and may not generate product revenue in the future. With the exception of our encryption products, all of the Company’s products have not been incorporated into commercially marketable products, have not generated any revenue from commercial productions (other than license fees) and may never be commercialized. Even if commercialized, the Company’s products may not be commercially successful because consumers may not desire the Company’s products or third parties may develop superior technology or have proprietary rights that preclude the Company from marketing its products. • The very competitive markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology could have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. The markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology worldwide are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. Most of our competitors are larger than us and possess financial, research, service support, marketing, manufacturing and other resources significantly greater than ours. Competitive pressures may have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. We can give no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully in the market for our encryption products and our flat panel displays. • Our common stock is subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Our common stock fits the definition of a penny stock and therefore is subject to the rules adopted by the SEC regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. These SEC rules may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our common stock making it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. The SEC rules require a broker or dealer proposing to effect a transaction in a penny stock to deliver the customer a risk disclosure document that provides certain information prescribed by the SEC, including, but not limited to, the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker or dealer must also disclose the aggregate amount of any compensation received or receivable by him in connection with such transaction prior to consummating the transaction. In addition, the SEC rules also require a broker or dealer to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction before completion of the transaction. The existence of these SEC rules may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. • We have not paid, nor do we anticipate paying in the future, any cash dividends. We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other relevant factors. We have no plan to declare any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. It is anticipated that earnings, if any, which may be generated from future operations will be used to finance our continued operations. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 