Item 1A. Risk Factors. ------------- Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: o We have experienced significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations and they may continue. We have had net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since our inception, and we may continue to incur substantial losses and experience substantial negative cash flows from operations. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses in developing our encryption and flat panel display technologies and in our efforts to produce commercially marketable products incorporating our technology. We have had limited sales of products to support our operations from inception through October 31, 2007. We have set forth below our net losses, research and development expenses and net cash used in operations for the three fiscal years ended October 31, 2007: Fiscal Years Ended October 31, ------------------------------ 2007 2006 2005 ---- ---- ---- Net loss................................................ $5,458,218 $7,600,901 $4,451,257 Research and development expenses....................... 3,403,943 4,614,300 2,266,911 Net cash used in operations............................. 2,396,859 1,847,108 1,720,332 o We may need additional funding in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms and, if available, may result in dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we will require additional funding to continue our research and development activities and market our products. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable, together with cash flows from expected sales of our encryption products and revenue relating to our thin, flat, low-voltage phosphor display technology, including license fees we expect to receive from Videocon after Videocon has obtained the necessary regulatory approvals in India for such payments, and other potential sources of cash flows, will be sufficient to enable us to continue in operation until at least the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2009. We anticipate that, thereafter, we will require additional funds to continue our marketing, production, and research and development activities, and we will require outside funding if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements. However, our projections of future cash needs and cash flows may differ from actual results. If current cash and cash that may be generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell debt or equity securities or to obtain a line of credit prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2009. 9 The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt could result in dilution to our stockholders. We currently have no arrangements with respect to additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenues in the future (through sales or otherwise) to improve our liquidity or sustain future operations, that the necessary regulatory approvals in India for payments of license fees by Videocon to us will be obtained, that our production capabilities will be adequate, that other products will not be produced by other companies that will render our products obsolete, or that other sources of funding would be available, if needed, on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain such funds if needed, we would need to curtail or cease some or all of our operations. o We may not generate sufficient revenue to support our operations in the future or to generate profits. Our principal operations are the development, production and marketing of thin, flat, low-voltage phosphor display technology and the development, production and marketing of multi-functional encryption products that provide information security for domestic and international users over virtually every communications media. We have pursued and are continuing to pursue marketing and licensing opportunities for our display technology. To date we have not received any revenue from sales or licensing of our display technology; however, commencing in fiscal 2008 we expect to receive license fees from Videocon after Videocon has obtained the necessary regulatory approvals in India for such payments. Our encryption products are only in their initial stages of commercial production. Our investments in research and development are considerable. Our ability to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations in the future or to generate profits will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: o Videocon obtaining approval from the Indian government for the payment of the license fees and royalties to us under the License Agreement. o Our and Videocon's ability to implement our technology for Videocon to produce and market products containing our displays. o The capability of Volga Svet Ltd. ("Volga"), a Russian display company that we have been working with for ten years, to produce color and monochrome displays and supply them to us. o Our ability to successfully market our line of encryption products. 10 o Our production capabilities and those of our suppliers as required for the production of our encryption products. o Long-term performance of our products. o The capability of our dealers and distributors to adequately service our encryption products. o Our ability to maintain an acceptable pricing level to end-users for both our encryption and display products. o The ability of suppliers to meet our requirements and schedule. o Our ability to successfully develop other new products under development. o Rapidly changing consumer preferences. o The possible development of competitive products that could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. o Our future negotiations with Volga with respect to payments and other arrangements with Volga. Because our revenue is subject to fluctuation, we may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If we have a shortfall in revenue in relation to expenses, our operating results would suffer. Our operating results for any particular fiscal year may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on year-to-year comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. o Our arrangements with Videocon involve market risks. At the same time as we entered into the License Agreement, we entered into a Share Subscription Agreement with an affiliate of Videocon, Mars Overseas, for Mars Overseas to purchase 20,000,000 shares of our common stock (the "CopyTele Shares"), and a subsidiary of ours, CopyTele International, entered into a GDR Purchase Agreement to purchase 1,495,845 GDRs of Videocon (the "Videocon GDRs"). The Videocon GDRs are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The value of the Videocon GDRs owned by us depends upon, among other things, the value of Videocon's securities in its home market of India, as well as exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Indian rupee (the currency in which Videocon's securities are traded in its home market). In addition, for the purpose of effecting a lock up of the Videocon GDRs and CopyTele Shares (collectively, the "Securities") for a period of seven years, and therefore restricting both parties from selling or transferring the Securities during such period, CopyTele International and Mars Overseas have entered into two Loan and Pledge Agreements. The Videocon GDRs are to be held as security for a loan in principal amount of $5,000,000 from Mars Overseas to CopyTele International, and the CopyTele Shares are similarly held as security for a loan in principal amount of $5,000,000 from CopyTele International to Mars Overseas. The loans are for a term of seven years and do not bear interest. The loan agreements also provide for customary events of default which may result in forfeiture of the Securities by the defaulting party. There can be no assurance that the respective parties receiving such loans will not default on such loan. 11 o We are dependent upon a few key executives and the loss of their services could adversely affect us. Our future success is dependent on our ability to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of our Chief Executive Officer, Denis A. Krusos, and our President, Frank J. DiSanto, who founded our company in 1982 and are engaged in the management and operations of our business, including all aspects of the development, production and marketing of our encryption products and flat panel display technology. In addition, Messrs. Krusos and DiSanto, as well as our other skilled management and technical personnel, are important to our future business and financial arrangements. We do not have employment agreements with, nor do we maintain "key person" life insurance on, either Mr. Krusos or Mr. DiSanto. The loss of the services of any such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. o The very competitive markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology could have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. The markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology worldwide are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. Most of our competitors are larger than us and possess financial, research, service support, marketing, manufacturing and other resources significantly greater than ours. Competitive pressures may have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. o Our common stock is subject to the SEC's penny stock rules which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Our stock fits the definition of a penny stock. The SEC rules regarding penny stocks may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our common stock and making it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. The rules require a broker to deliver a risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker must also give bid and offer quotations and broker and salesperson compensation information to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting a transaction and in writing with the confirmation. The SEC rules also require a broker to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction before completion of the transaction. These requirements may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. -------------------------- None. 12 