Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: ● We have experienced significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations and they may continue. We have had net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since our inception, and we may continue to incur substantial losses and experience substantial negative cash flows from operations. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses in developing our encryption and flat panel display technologies and in our efforts to produce commercially marketable products incorporating our technology. We have had limited sales of products to support our operations from inception through October 31, 2010. We have set forth below our net losses, research and development expenses and net cash used in operations for the three fiscal years ended October 31, 2010 and 2009: Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2010 2009 Net loss $ 5,175,131 $ 16,489,015 Research and development expenses 3,007,459 4,116,200 Net cash used in operations 2,405,817 2,501,566 ● We may need additional funding in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms and, if available, may result in dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we will require additional funding to continue our research and development activities and market our products. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments in U.S. government securities and accounts receivable, together with cash flows from expected sales of our encryption products and revenue relating to our thin, flat, low-voltage phosphor display technology, but without regard to the timing or amount of license fees and royalties from Videocon, will be sufficient to enable us to continue our marketing, production, and research and development activities. However, our projections of future cash needs and cash flows may differ from actual results. If current cash and cash that may be generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell debt or additional equity securities or to obtain a line of credit. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt could result in dilution to our stockholders. It is also management’s intention to continue to compensate employees by issuing stock or stock options. We currently have no arrangements with respect to additional financing. We can give no assurances that we will generate sufficient revenues in the future (through sales, license fees and royalties, or otherwise) to satisfy our liquidity requirements or sustain future operations, that our production capabilities will be adequate, that other products will not be produced by other companies that will render our products obsolete, or that other sources of funding would be available, if needed, on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot obta in such funding if needed, we would need to curtail or cease some or all of our operations. 12 ● We may not generate sufficient revenue to support our operations in the future or to generate profits. Our principal operations include the development, production and marketing of thin flat display technologies, including low-voltage phosphor displays and low-power passive displays, and the development, production and marketing of multi-functional encryption products that provide information security for domestic and international users over virtually every communications media. In May 2008, we began receiving license fees related to our display technology from Videocon pursuant to the License Agreement. The License Agreement provides for payment of fees as well as the payment of certain royalties based on sales of products containing our display technology. However, we have agreed to certain deferrals of the license fee payments as described above and we can give n o assurances that we will receive any additional license or similar fees relating to our display technology or that we will receive any royalty payments from Videocon. In addition, our arrangements with Videocon involve counterparty risk. Our encryption products are only in their initial stages of commercial production. Our investments in research and development are considerable. Our ability to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations in the future or to generate profits will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: ● Our and Videocon’s ability to implement our technology for Videocon to produce and market products containing our displays. ● Our ability to enter into license agreements with other third parties to utilize our technology in their products. ● The capability of Volga, with whom we have been working for thirteen years, to produce color and monochrome displays and supply them to us. ● Our ability to successfully market our line of encryption products. ● Our production capabilities and those of our suppliers as required for the production of our encryption products. ● Long-term performance of our products. ● The capability of our dealers and distributors to adequately service our encryption products. ● Our ability to maintain an acceptable pricing level to end-users for both our encryption and display products. ● The ability of suppliers to meet our and Videocon’s requirements and schedule. ● Our ability to successfully develop other new products under development, including our thin, flat, low-power passive display technology. ● Rapidly changing consumer preferences. ● The possible development of competitive products that could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. ● Our future negotiations with Volga with respect to payments and other arrangements with Volga. ● Our ability to successfully implement and commercialize our E-Paper® display technology. 13 Because our revenue is subject to fluctuation, we may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If we have a shortfall in revenue in relation to expenses, our operating results would suffer. Our operating results for any particular fiscal year may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on year-to-year comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. ● The loss of Videocon as a customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. All of our net revenue in our Display Technology Segment and approximately 82% of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2010 and approximately 95% of our net revenue in our Display Technology Segment and approximately 87% of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2009 came from Videocon. The loss of Videocon as a customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our customer relationship with Videocon or Videocon may delay performance under, or fail to comply with, the payment terms of the License Agreement, all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Any reduction in the amount of revenue that we derive from Videocon, without an offsetting increase in new sales to other customers, co uld have a material adverse effect on our operating results. ● Future modifications of the timing of payments of our license agreement with Videocon could occur that might materially affect which future periods in which revenues are recognized. Under the License Agreement, we were originally scheduled to receive a license fee of $11 million from Videocon, payable in installments over a 27 month period, which commenced in May 2008 and was originally scheduled to end in August 2010. We agreed to defer the license fee payments due from Videocon that had been scheduled to be paid in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 and the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. As of October 31, 2010, we have received aggregate license fee payments from Videocon of $3.2 million. We presently anticipate that ongoing improvements to our display technology will likely result in future modifications of the timing of payments from Videocon that would materially affect in which future periods revenues from Videocon are re cognized. While Videocon’s obligation with respect to the balance of the license fee remains in effect, we cannot presently estimate specific future payments dates for the remaining $7.8 million of license fee payments; however, we are in discussion with Videocon for additional payments. 14 ● A substantial portion of our business is with Videocon, a company governed by the laws of India and accordingly, we are faced with the inherent risks of doing business in a foreign country. There are risks inherent in doing business in a foreign country. Risks of doing business with a foreign company could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks include, but are not limited to, unpredictable changes in or application of taxation regulations, foreign exchange controls, uncertain or unpredictable political, legal and economic environments and invalidity of government approvals. The occurrence of one or more of these events or a change in existing policy could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, earnings, results of operations, and financial condition. These risks may limit or disrupt our operations, restrict the movement of funds or impair contract rights. In addition, the License Agreement with Videocon provides that it is governed by the law of India and accordingly, in the event of a dispute regarding the License Agreement with Videocon, it may be necessary for us to resolve such dispute in India or another foreign country, where we would be faced with unfamiliar laws and procedures. The resolution of disputes in foreign countries can be costly and time consuming, similar to the situation in the United States. However, in a foreign country, we face the additional burden of understanding unfamiliar laws and procedures. We may not be entitled to a jury trial, as we might be in the United States. Further, to litigate or arbitrate in a foreign country, we would be faced with the necessity of hiring lawyers and other professionals who are famili ar with the foreign laws. For these reasons, we may incur unforeseen expenses if we are forced to resolve a dispute in India or any other foreign country. ● Our arrangements with Videocon involve market risks. At the same time as we entered into the License Agreement, we entered into the Share Subscription Agreement with Mars Overseas, to purchase the 20,000,000 CopyTele Shares, and our subsidiary, CopyTele International entered into the GDR Purchase Agreement to purchase the 1,495,845 Videocon GDRs. The value of the Videocon GDRs owned by us depends upon, among other things, the value of Videocon’s securities in its home market of India, as well as exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Indian rupee (the currency in which Videocon’s securities are traded in its home market). The value of the Videocon GDRs declined substantially in fiscal year 2008 and while it has partially recovered in fiscal year 2009, we recorded an other than temporary impairment. We can give no assurances that the value of the Videocon GDRs will not decline in the future and future write downs may occur. In addition, for the purpose of effecting a lock up of the Videocon GDRs and CopyTele Shares (collectively, the “Securities”) for a period of seven years, and therefore restricting both parties from selling or transferring the Securities during such period, CopyTele International and Mars Overseas entered into two Loan and Pledge Agreements. The Videocon GDRs are to be held as security for a loan in the principal amount of $5,000,000 from Mars Overseas to CopyTele International, and the CopyTele Shares are similarly held as security for a loan in the principal amount of $5,000,000 from CopyTele International to Mars Overseas. The loans are for a term of seven years and do not bear interest. The loan agreements also provide for customary events of default which may result in forfeiture of the Securities by the defaulting party. We can give no assurances that the respective parties receiving such loans will not default on such loans. 15 ● Our arrangements with Volga involve liquidity and market risks. At the same time as we entered into the Technology License Agreement with Volga in September 2009, we acquired a 19.9% ownership interest in Volga in exchange for 150,000 unregistered shares of our common stock. The Volga shares are not publicly traded and there is no assurance that we will be able to sell the shares at an acceptable price, if at all. ● We are dependent upon a few key employees and the loss of their services could adversely affect us. Our future success is dependent on our ability to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of our Chief Executive Officer, Denis A. Krusos, who is engaged in the management and operations of our business, including all aspects of the development, production and marketing of our encryption products and flat panel display technology. In addition, Mr. Krusos, as well as our other skilled management and technical personnel, are important to our future business and financial arrangements. We do not have an employment agreement with, nor do we maintain “key person” life insurance on, Mr. Krusos. The loss of the services of any such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. ● A substantial portion of the Company’s material products have not been incorporated into commercially marketable products, have not generated any product revenue and may not generate product revenue in the future. With the exception of our Encryption Products, all of the Company’s products have not been incorporated into commercially marketable products, have not generated any revenue from commercial productions (other than license fees) and may never be commercialized. Even if commercialized, the Company’s products may not be commercially successful because consumers may not accept the Company’s products or third parties may develop superior technology or have proprietary rights that preclude the Company from marketing its products. ● The very competitive markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology could have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. The markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology worldwide are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. Most of our competitors are larger than us and possess financial, research, service support, marketing, manufacturing and other resources significantly greater than ours. Competitive pressures may have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. 16 ● Our common stock is subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Our common stock fits the definition of a penny stock and therefore is subject to the rules adopted by the SEC regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. These SEC rules may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our common stock making it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. The SEC rules require a broker or dealer proposing to effect a transaction in a penny stock to deliver the customer a risk disclosure document that provides certain information prescribed by the SEC, including, but not limited to, the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker or dealer must also disclose the aggregate amount of any compensation received or receivable by him in connection with such transaction prior to consummating the transaction . In addition, the SEC rules also require a broker or dealer to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction before completion of the transaction. The existence of these SEC rules may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. ● We have not paid, nor do we anticipate paying, any cash dividends in the future. We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other relevant factors. We have no plan to declare any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. It is anticipated that earnings, if any, which may be generated from future operations will be used to finance our continued operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 