Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: o We have experienced significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations and they may continue. We have had net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since our inception, and we may continue to incur substantial losses and experience substantial negative cash flows from operations. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses in developing our encryption and flat panel display technologies and in our efforts to produce commercially marketable products incorporating our technology. We have had limited sales of products to support our operations from inception through October 31, 2006. We have set forth below our net losses, research and development expenses and net cash used in operations for the three fiscal years ended October 31, 2006: Fiscal Years Ended October 31, ------------------------------------------- 2006 2005 2004 ------------- ------------- ------------- Net loss $7,600,901 $4,451,257 $3,360,655 Research and development expenses 4,614,300 2,266,911 2,164,427 Net cash used in operations 1,847,108 1,720,332 1,205,122 o We may need additional funding in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms and, if available, may result in dilution to our stockholders, and our auditors have issued a "going concern" audit opinion. We anticipate that, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we will require additional funding to continue our research and development activities and market our products. The auditor's report on our financial statements as of October 31, 2006 states that the net loss incurred during the year ended October 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit as of that date, and the other factors described in Note 1 to the Financial Statements raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The auditor's report on our financial statements for the years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004 contained a similar statement. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 11 We believe that our existing cash and accounts receivable, together with cash flows from expected sales of encryption products and flat panel displays, and other potential sources of cash flows, will be sufficient to enable us to continue in operation until at least the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2008. We anticipate that, thereafter, we will require additional funds to continue marketing, production, and research and development activities, and we will require outside funding if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements. However, our projections of future cash needs and cash flows may differ from actual results. If current cash and cash that may be generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell debt or equity securities or to obtain a line of credit prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt could result in dilution to our stockholders. We can give no assurance that we will be able to generate adequate funds from operations, that funds will be available to us from debt or equity financings or that, if available; we will be able to obtain such funds on favorable terms and conditions. We currently have no arrangements with respect to additional financing. If we cannot obtain such funds if needed, we would need to curtail or cease some or all of our operations. o We may not generate sufficient revenue to support our operations in the future or to generate profits. We are engaged in two principal operations: (i) the development, production and marketing of our LVNDTM display and (ii) the development, production and marketing of multi-functional encryption products that provide information security for domestic and international users over virtually every communications media. We have only recently started to produce color and monochrome versions of our display and to date, we have not had any revenue from sales or licensing of our display. Our encryption products are only in their initial stages of commercial production. Our investments in research and development are considerable. Our ability to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations in the future or to generate profits will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: o Our ability to successfully market our line of LVNDTM displays and encryption products. o The capability of Volga to produce color and monochrome LVNDTM displays and supply them to us. o Our ability to enter into arrangements with other companies to produce and market our LVNDTM displays. o Our production capabilities and those of our suppliers as required for the production of our encryption products. o Long-term performance of our products. o The capability of our dealers and distributors to adequately service our encryption products. o Our ability to maintain an acceptable pricing level to end-users for both our encryption and display products. o The ability of suppliers to meet our requirements and schedule. 12 o Our ability to successfully develop other new products under development. o Rapidly changing consumer preferences. o The possible development of competitive products that could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. o Our future negotiations with Volga with respect to payments and other arrangements under our Joint Cooperation Agreement with Volga. Because our revenue is subject to fluctuation, we may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If we have a shortfall in revenue in relation to expenses, our operating results would suffer. Our operating results for any particular fiscal year may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on year-to-year comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. o We are dependent upon a few key executives and the loss of their services could adversely affect us. Our future success is dependent on our ability to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of our Chief Executive Officer, Denis A. Krusos, and our President, Frank J. DiSanto, who founded our company in 1982 and are engaged in the management and operations of our business, including all aspects of the development, production and marketing of our encryption products and flat panel display technology. In addition, Messrs. Krusos and DiSanto, as well as our other skilled management and technical personnel, are important to our future business and financial arrangements. We do not have employment agreements with, nor do we maintain "key person" life insurance on, either Mr. Krusos or Mr. DiSanto. The loss of the services of any such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. o The very competitive markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology could have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. The markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology worldwide are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. Most of our competitors are larger than us and possess financial, research, service support, marketing, manufacturing and other resources significantly greater than ours. Competitive pressures may have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. o Our common stock is subject to the SEC's penny stock rules which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Our stock fits the definition of a penny stock. The SEC rules regarding penny stocks may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our common stock and making it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. The rules require a broker to deliver a risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny 13 stock market. The broker must also give bid and offer quotations and broker and salesperson compensation information to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting a transaction and in writing with the confirmation. The SEC rules also require a broker to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction before completion of the transaction. These requirements may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 