Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Operations We have a history of losses and may incur additional losses in the future. On a cumulative basis we have sustained substantial losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception. As of October 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was approximately $125,083,000. As of October 31, 2012, we had approximately $840,000 in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand, and negative working capital of approximately $900,000. We expect to continue incurring significant legal and general and administrative expenses in connection with our operations. As a result, we anticipate that we may incur losses in the future. We may need additional funding in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms and, if available, may result in dilution to our stockholders, and the report from our independent registered public accountants includes an uncertainty paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Based on currently available information, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with expected cash flows from patent licensing and enforcement, and other potential sources of cash flow may not be sufficient to enable us to continue our patent licensing and enforcement activities for at least 12 months. However, our projections of future cash needs and cash flows may differ from actual results. If current cash on hand and cash that may be generated from patent licensing and enforcement activities are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell our investment securities or other financial assets or our debt or additional equity securities or obtain loans from various financial institutions where possible. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible into or exercisable for equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. We can give no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flows in the future (through licensing and enforcement of patents, or otherwise) to satisfy our liquidity requirements or sustain future operations, or that other sources of funding, such as sales of equity or debt, would be available, if needed, on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain such funding if needed or if we cannot sufficiently reduce operating expenses, we would need to curtail or cease some or all of our operations. As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we have incurred a net loss of approximately $4,253,000 during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012, and, as of that date, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $125,083,000 and a net shareholders’ equity deficit of approximately $1,194,000. These and the other factors described herein raise uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in regard to these matters are set forth above. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The report from our independent registered public accountants, KPMG LLP, dated January 29, 2013, includes an explanatory paragraph related to our ability to continue as a going concern. 9 Table of Contents If we encounter unforeseen difficulties with our business or operations in the future that require us to obtain additional working capital, and we cannot obtain additional working capital on favorable terms, or at all, our business may suffer. Our consolidated cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand totaled approximately $840,000 and $3,023,000 at October 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. To date, we have relied primarily upon cash from our operations and from the public and private sale of equity securities to generate the working capital needed to finance our operations. We may encounter unforeseen difficulties with our business or operations in the future that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. As a result, we may be required to obtain additional working capital in the future through bank credit facilities, public or private debt or equity financings, or otherwise. If we are required to raise additional working capital in the future, such financing may be unavailable to us on favorable terms, if at all, or may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we fail to obtain additional working capital as and when needed, such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to effectively manage our potential growth could place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our potential growth is expected to place a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. Further, as our business grows, we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any growth by us, or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships, may place additional strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. Although we may not grow as we expect, if we fail to manage our growth effectively or to develop and expand our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems, our business and financial results will be materially harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our organization. As we grow, the administrative demands upon us will grow, and our success will depend upon our ability to meet those demands. These demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support, and general office services. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part upon market factors outside of our control. Further, we will need to effectively manage the training and growth of our staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Our investments are subject to risks, which may cause us to incur losses or have reduced liquidity. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since 2008, and at times, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers. Although economic conditions appear to be improving, if the current capital and credit markets do not continue to improve or further deteriorate, we may be unable to liquidate a particular issue. Furthermore, if economic conditions do not continue to improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in a future period despite our ability to hold such investments until maturity. Our equity arrangements with Videocon involve market risks. At the same time as we entered into the Videocon License Agreement, we entered into the Share Subscription Agreement with Mars Overseas, to purchase the 20,000,000 CopyTele Shares, and our subsidiary, CopyTele International, entered into the GDR Purchase Agreement to purchase the 1,495,845 Videocon GDRs. The value of the Videocon GDRs owned by us depends upon, among other things, the value of Videocon’s securities in its home market of India, as well as exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Indian rupee (the currency in which Videocon’s securities are traded in its home market). Based on both the duration and the continuing magnitude of the market price declines and the uncertainty of recovery, we recorded other than temporary impairments as of October 31, 2009 and 2011. We can give no assurances that the value of the Videocon GDRs will not decline in the future and future write downs may occur. In addition, for the purpose of effecting a lock up of the Videocon GDRs and CopyTele Shares (collectively, the “Securities”) for a period of seven years, and therefore restricting both parties from selling or transferring the Securities during such period, CopyTele International and Mars Overseas entered into two Loan and Pledge Agreements. The Videocon GDRs are to be held as security for a loan in the principal amount of $5,000,000 from Mars Overseas to CopyTele International, and the CopyTele Shares are similarly held as security for a loan in the principal amount of $5,000,000 from CopyTele International to Mars Overseas. The loans are for a term of seven years, do not bear interest and prepayment of the loans will not release the lien on the Securities prior to the end of the seven year period. The loan agreements also provide for customary events of default which may result in forfeiture of the Securities by the defaulting party. We can give no assurances that the respective parties receiving such loans will not default on such loans. Risks Related to Patent Monetization and Patent Assertion Activities We may not be able to monetize our patent portfolios. As we recently announced, the primary operations of the Company going forward will be Patent Monetization and Patent Assertion. We expect to first generate revenues and related cash flows from the licensing and enforcement of patents that we currently own and we expect to obtain the rights to license and enforce additional patents from third parties. However, we can give no assurances that we will be able to identify opportunities to exploit such patents or that such opportunities, even if identified, will generate sufficient revenues to sustain future operations. 11 Table of Contents Certain of our patent portfolios are subject to existing license agreements with AUO and Videocon which may limit our ability to monetize them. In the course of entering into the EPD License Agreement and the Nano Display License Agreement with AUO, and the Videocon License Agreement with Videocon, certain rights to our ePaper® Display patents were licensed to AUO, and certain rights to our nFED Display patents were licensed to AUO and Videocon, respectively. We have terminated the EPD License Agreement and the Nano Display License Agreement with AUO although we can give no assurance that AUO will not challenge the effectiveness of such terminations, and we are engaged in discussions with Videocon with respect to the Videocon License Agreement. We intend to take the steps necessary to seek to remove any encumbrances that may inhibit our patent licensing and enforcement efforts; however, we can give no assurance that the ePaper® Display patents and the nFED patents will be unencumbered. If the patent portfolios remain encumbered or if our termination of the AUO license agreements are deemed to be ineffective, it could limit our ability to monetize such portfolios. While we recently commenced lawsuits against AUO and E Ink, we may not be successful in obtaining judgments in our favor. While we recently filed the AUO/E Ink Lawsuit and the E Ink Lawsuit, we can give no assurance that these lawsuits will be decided in our favor or even if they are that the damages and other remedies will be material. Our revenues are unpredictable, and this may harm our financial condition. Due to the nature of the licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of license and other fees from potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the outcome of enforcement actions, rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the growth rates of potential licensees and certain other factors, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage, adversely affect our business and operating results, cause our quarterly results to fall below market expectations and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our success depends in part upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent us in patent enforcement litigation. The success of our licensing business depends upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to prosecute patent infringement litigation. As our patent enforcement actions increase, it will become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents their representation of us. 12 Table of Contents We, in certain circumstances, rely on representations, warranties and opinions made by third parties that, if determined to be false or inaccurate, may expose us to certain material liabilities. From time to time, we may rely upon the opinions of purported experts. In certain instances, we may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such opinions are made. By relying on these opinions, we may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Once we commence Patent Monetization and Patent Assertion, we may become subject to claims and counterclaims by third parties. As we become engaged in the business of Patent Monetization and Patent Assertion, we may be subject to claims, counterclaims and legal actions that arise in the ordinary course of business and which could have a material impact on our operation and financial condition. In connection with any of patent enforcement actions, it is also possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or award attorney's fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material. Our exposure to uncontrollable outside influences, including new legislation, court rulings or actions by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, could adversely affect our Patent Monetization and Patent Assertion business and results of operations. Our Patent Monetization and Patent Assertion business is subject to numerous risks from outside influences, including the following: New legislation, regulations or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and decrease our revenue. We may apply for patents and may spend a significant amount of resources to enforce those patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”), or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions. Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. 13 Table of Contents More patent applications are filed each year resulting in longer delays in getting patents issued by the USPTO. We hold a number of pending patents. We have identified a trend of increasing patent applications each year, which we believe is resulting in longer delays in obtaining approval of pending patent applications. The application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. U.S. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in U.S. Federal court. Federal trial courts that hear patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. Criminal cases always take priority over patent enforcement actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before United States Judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in patent enforcement actions will have a significant effect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. Any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications. Our primary asset is our patent portfolios, including pending patent applications before the USPTO. The value of our patent portfolios is dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could negatively impact the value of our assets. Further, reductions in funding from Congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the USPTO, causing an unexpected increase in our expenses. Competition is intense in the industries in which we do business and as a result, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents. Our licensing business may compete with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than we do. As we become more successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we currently rely upon to generate future revenue. 14 Table of Contents Our patented technologies face uncertain market value. Many of our patents and technologies are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. As patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents. We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our company. Uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue-generating opportunities depend on the use of our patented technologies by existing and prospective licensees, the overall demand for the products and services of our licensees, and on the overall economic and financial health of our licensees. Although economic conditions appear to be improving, recent uncertainties in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in the credit, equity and fixed income markets. If economic conditions do not continue to improve, or if they further deteriorate, many of our licensees' potential customers, which may rely on credit financing, may delay or reduce their purchases of our licensees' products and services. In addition, the use or adoption of our patented technologies is often based on current and forecasted demand for our licensees' products and services in the marketplace and may require companies to make significant initial commitments of capital and other resources. If negative conditions in the global credit markets delay or prevent our licensees' and their potential customers' access to credit, overall consumer spending on the products and services of our licensees may decrease and the potential adoption or use of our patented technologies may slow, respectively. Further, if the markets in which our licensees' intend to participate do not continue to improve, or deteriorate further, this could negatively impact our licensees' long-term sales and revenue generation, margins and operating expenses, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our future business, results of operations and financial condition. In connection with patent enforcement actions conducted by us, a court may rule that we have violated certain statutory, regulatory, federal, local or governing rules or standards, which may expose us to certain material liabilities. In connection with any of our patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or award attorney's fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if we are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys' fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and our financial position. 15 Table of Contents We are dependent upon a few key personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect us. Our future success to monetize our patent portfolios will depend on the efforts of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert A. Berman, and our Senior Vice President – Engineering, John Roop, and our strategic advisor, Dr. Amit Kumar. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on Messrs. Berman or Roop or Dr. Kumar. The loss of the services of any such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for operations and acquisitions. We have and in the future may issue securities convertible into our common stock. Any of these events may dilute stockholders' ownership interests in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. We have a limited number of common shares available for future issuance which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. We are authorized to issue 300,000,000 shares of common stock. As of January 25, 2013, we have outstanding 185,104,037 shares of common stock or 280,532,256 shares of common stock after giving effect to the assumed exercise of all outstanding warrants and options and assumed conversion of convertible debentures. Due to the limited number of authorized shares available for issuance, we may not able to raise significant additional capital until we increase the number of shares we are authorized to issue. To facilitate the possibility and flexibility of raising of additional capital or the completion of potential acquisitions of patent portfolios, we will seek stockholder approval to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock. We can provide no assurance that stockholders will approve an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to increase the number of shares of common stock we are authorized to issue. If we require additional capital and we are unable to obtain stockholder approval of increase the number of shares of common stock, we would need to curtail or cease some or all of our operations. 16 Table of Contents Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our company that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make the acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors, more difficult. These provisions include: · Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; · The authorization in our certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover; and · Provisions in our bylaws regarding stockholders' rights to call a special meeting of stockholders limit such rights to stockholders holding together at least a majority of shares of the Company entitled to vote at the meeting, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to wage a proxy contest for control of our board of directors or to vote to repeal any of the anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Together, these provisions may make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that could otherwise involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may fail to meet market expectations because of fluctuations in quarterly operating results, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our reported revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. It is possible that in future periods, revenues could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: · the dollar amount of agreements executed in each period, which is primarily driven by the nature and characteristics of the technology being licensed and/or the magnitude of infringement associated with a specific licensee; · the specific terms and conditions of agreements executed in each period and/or the periods of infringement contemplated by the respective payments; · fluctuations in the total number of agreements executed; · fluctuations in the sales results or other royalty-per-unit activities of our licensees that impact the calculation of license fees due; · the timing of the receipt of periodic license fee payments and/or reports from licensees; · fluctuations in the net number of active licensees period to period; · costs related to acquisitions, alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our operations; · the timing of payments under the terms of any customer or license agreements into which we may enter; and · expenses related to, and the timing and results of, patent filings and other enforcement proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, as more fully described in this section. 17 Table of Contents Technology company stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress the price of our common stock. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies have been highly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following: · announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions; · developments or disputes concerning our patents; · our or our competitors' technological innovations; · developments in relationships with licensees; · variations in our quarterly operating results; · our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts' expectations of our financial results; · a change in financial estimates or securities analysts' recommendations; · changes in management's or securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · the current sovereign debt crises affecting several countries in the European Union and concerns about sovereign debt of the United States; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new technologies, or patents; and · failure to complete significant transactions. The financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the uncertainty in global economic conditions, which began in late 2007 has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in the credit, equity and fixed income markets. As noted above, our stock price, like many others, has fluctuated significantly in recent periods and if investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by global economic conditions, our stock price could continue to fluctuate significantly in future periods. In addition, we believe that fluctuations in our stock price during applicable periods can also be impacted by court rulings and/or other developments in our patent licensing and enforcement actions. Court rulings in patent enforcement actions are often difficult to understand, even when favorable or neutral to the value of our patents and our overall business, and we believe that investors in the market may overreact, causing fluctuations in our stock prices that may not accurately reflect the impact of court rulings on our business operations and assets. 18 Table of Contents In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If our common stock was the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially harm our business and financial results. Our common stock is subject to the Commission’s penny stock rules which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Our common stock fits the definition of a penny stock and therefore is subject to the rules adopted by the Commission regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. The Commission’s rules may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our common stock making it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. The Commission’s rules require a broker or dealer proposing to effect a transaction in a penny stock to deliver the customer a risk disclosure document that provides certain information prescribed by the Commission, including, but not limited to, the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker or dealer must also disclose the aggregate amount of any compensation received or receivable by him in connection with such transaction prior to consummating the transaction. In addition, the Commission’s rules also require a broker or dealer to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction before completion of the transaction. The existence of the Commission’s rules may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. The Securities issued in our recent private placements may dilute your percentage ownership interest and may also result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. In connection with our private placements in September 2012 and January 2013, we issued convertible debentures and warrants which are convertible into or exercisable for an aggregate of 17,650,000 shares of our common stock. If all such shares of common stock were issued, our stockholders would experience a dilution in ownership interest of approximately 8.7%. In addition, as we are required to register these shares for resale by the holders, it is possible that a significant number of shares could be sold at the same time. Because the market for our common stock is thinly traded, the sales and/or the perception that those sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the mere existence of a significant number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures or the exercise warrants may be perceived by the market as having a potential dilutive effect, which could lead to a decrease in the price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 