Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties: · We have experienced significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations and they may continue. We have had net losses and negative cash flows from operations in each year since our inception, and we may continue to incur substantial losses and experience substantial negative cash flows from operations. We have incurred substantial costs and expenses in developing our encryption and flat panel display technologies and in our efforts to produce commercially marketable products incorporating our technology. We have had limited sales of products to support our operations from inception through October 31, 2009. We have set forth below our net losses, research and development expenses and net cash used in operations for the three fiscal years ended October 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: 9 Fiscal Years Ended October 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net loss $ 16,489,015 $ 5,821,604 $ 5,458,218 Research and development expenses 4,116,200 4,127,393 3,403,943 Net cash used in operations 2,501,566 901,868 2,396,859 · We may need additional funding in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms and, if available, may result in dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our requirements, we will require additional funding to continue our research and development activities and market our products. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments in U.S. government securities and accounts receivable, together with cash flows from expected sales of our encryption products and revenue relating to our thin, flat, low-voltage phosphor display technology, including license fees and royalties from Videocon, and other potential sources of cash flows, will be sufficient to enable us to continue our marketing, production, and research and development activities. However, our projections of future cash needs and cash flows may differ from actual results. If current cash and cash that may be generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell debt or equity securities or to obtain a line of credit. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt could result in dilution to our stockholders. It is also management’s intention to continue to compensate employees by issuing stock or stock options. We currently have no arrangements with respect to additional financing. We can give no assurances that we will generate sufficient revenues in the future (through sales, license fees and royalties, or otherwise) to satisfy our liquidity requirements or sustain future operations, that our production capabilities will be adequate, that other products will not be produced by other companies that will render our products obsolete, or that other sources of funding would be available, if needed, on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain such funding if needed, we would need to curtail or cease some or all of our operations. · We may not generate sufficient revenue to support our operations in the future or to generate profits. Our principal operations include the development, production and marketing of thin, flat, low-voltage phosphor display technology, the development of thin, flat, low-power passive display technology and the development, production and marketing of multi-functional encryption products that provide information security for domestic and international users over virtually every communications media. In May 2008, we began receiving license fees related to our display technology from Videocon pursuant to the License Agreement. The License Agreement provides for payment of additional license fees over the next fiscal year as well as the payment of certain royalties based on sales of products containing our display technology. However, we can give no assurances that thereafter we will receive any license or similar fees relating to our display technology or that we will receive any royalty payments from Videocon. In addition, our arrangements with Videocon involve counterparty risk. Our encryption products are only in their initial stages of commercial production. Our investments in research and development are considerable. Our ability to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations in the future or to generate profits will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: 10 · Our and Videocon’s ability to implement our technology for Videocon to produce and market products containing our displays. · The capability of Volga, with whom we have been working for twelve years, to produce color and monochrome displays and supply them to us. · Our ability to successfully market our line of encryption products. · Our production capabilities and those of our suppliers as required for the production of our encryption products. · Long-term performance of our products. · The capability of our dealers and distributors to adequately service our encryption products. · Our ability to maintain an acceptable pricing level to end-users for both our encryption and display products. · The ability of suppliers to meet our and Videocon’s requirements and schedule. · Our ability to successfully develop other new products under development, including our thin, flat, low-power passive display technology. · Rapidly changing consumer preferences. · The possible development of competitive products that could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. · Our future negotiations with Volga with respect to payments and other arrangements with Volga. · Our ability to successfully implement and commercialize our E-Paper® display technology. Because our revenue is subject to fluctuation, we may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If we have a shortfall in revenue in relation to expenses, our operating results would suffer. Our operating results for any particular fiscal year may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on year-to-year comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. · Our arrangements with Videocon involve market risks. At the same time as we entered into the License Agreement, we entered into the Share Subscription Agreement with Mars Overseas, to purchase 20,000,000 unregistered shares of our common stock (the “CopyTele Shares”), and a subsidiary of ours, CopyTele International, entered into a GDR Purchase Agreement to purchase 1,495,845 GDRs of Videocon (the “Videocon GDRs”). The Videocon GDRs are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The value of the Videocon GDRs owned by us depends upon, among other things, the value of Videocon’s securities in its home market of India, as well as exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Indian rupee (the currency in which Videocon’s securities are traded in its home market). The value of the Videocon GDRs declined substantially in fiscal year 2008 and while it has partially recovered in fiscal year 2009, we recorded an other than temporary impairment. We can give no assurances that the value of the Videocon GDRs will not decline in the future and future write downs may occur. 11 In addition, for the purpose of effecting a lock up of the Videocon GDRs and CopyTele Shares (collectively, the “Securities”) for a period of seven years, and therefore restricting both parties from selling or transferring the Securities during such period, CopyTele International and Mars Overseas entered into two Loan and Pledge Agreements. The Videocon GDRs are to be held as security for a loan in principal the amount of $5,000,000 from Mars Overseas to CopyTele International, and the CopyTele Shares are similarly held as security for a loan in the principal amount of $5,000,000 from CopyTele International to Mars Overseas. The loans are for a term of seven years and do not bear interest. The loan agreements also provide for customary events of default which may result in forfeiture of the Securities by the defaulting party. We can give no assurances that the respective parties receiving such loans will not default on such loans. · Our arrangements with Volga involve liquidity and market risks. At the same time as we entered into the Technology License Agreement with Volga, we acquired a 19.9% ownership interest in Volga in exchange for 150,000 unregistered shares of our common stock. The Volga shares are not publicly traded and there is no assurance that we will be able to sell the shares at an acceptable price, if at all. · We are dependent upon a few key employees and the loss of their services could adversely affect us. Our future success is dependent on our ability to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of our Chief Executive Officer, Denis A. Krusos, who is engaged in the management and operations of our business, including all aspects of the development, production and marketing of our encryption products and flat panel display technology. In addition, Mr. Krusos, as well as our other skilled management and technical personnel, are important to our future business and financial arrangements. We do not have an employment agreement with, nor do we maintain “key person” life insurance on, Mr. Krusos. The loss of the services of any such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 12 · The very competitive markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology could have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. The markets for our encryption products and flat panel display technology worldwide are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. Most of our competitors are larger than us and possess financial, research, service support, marketing, manufacturing and other resources significantly greater than ours. Competitive pressures may have a harmful effect on our business and operating results. · Our common stock is subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Our common stock fits the definition of a penny stock and therefore is subject to the rules adopted by the SEC regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. These SEC rules may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our common stock making it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. The SEC rules require a broker or dealer proposing to effect a transaction in a penny stock to deliver the customer a risk disclosure document that provides certain information prescribed by the SEC, including, but not limited to, the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker or dealer must also disclose the aggregate amount of any compensation received or receivable by him in connection with such transaction prior to consummating the transaction. In addition, the SEC rules also require a broker or dealer to make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction before completion of the transaction. The existence of these SEC rules may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. · We have not paid, nor do we anticipate paying, any cash dividends in the future. We have never paid cash dividends and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other relevant factors. We have no plan to declare any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. It is anticipated that earnings, if any, which may be generated from future operations will be used to finance our continued operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 