ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of our management team, as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based. Any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time. Important factors currently known to management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties associated with economic conditions in the commercial interiors industry as well as the risks and uncertainties discussed immediately below. We compete with a large number of manufacturers in the highly competitive commercial floorcovering products market, and some of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do. The commercial floorcovering industry is highly competitive. Globally, we compete for sales of floorcovering products with other carpet manufacturers and manufacturers of other types of floorcovering. Although the industry has experienced significant consolidation, a large number of manufacturers remain in the industry. Some of our competitors, including a number of large diversified domestic and foreign companies who manufacture modular carpet as one segment of their business, have greater financial resources than we do. Sales of our principal products have been and may continue to be affected by adverse economic cycles in the renovation and construction of commercial and institutional buildings. Sales of our principal products are related to the renovation and construction of commercial and institutional buildings. This activity is cyclical and has been affected by the strength of a country’s or region’s general economy, prevailing interest rates and other factors that lead to cost control measures by businesses and other users of commercial or institutional space. The effects of cyclicality upon the corporate office segment tend to be more pronounced than the effects upon the institutional segment. Historically, we have generated more sales in the corporate office segment than in any other market. The effects of cyclicality upon the new construction segment of the market also tend to be more pronounced than the effects upon the renovation segment. The adverse cycle during the years 2001 through 2003 significantly lessened the overall demand for commercial interiors products, which adversely affected our business during those years. These effects may recur and could be more pronounced if the global economy does not improve or is further weakened. - 13 - - Our success depends significantly upon the efforts, abilities and continued service of our senior management executives and our principal design consultant, and our loss of any of them could affect us adversely. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management executives. In addition, we rely significantly on the leadership that David Oakey of David Oakey Designs provides to our internal design staff. Specifically, David Oakey Designs provides product design/production engineering services to us under an exclusive consulting contract that contains non-competition covenants. Our current agreement with David Oakey Designs extends to April 2011. The loss of any of these key persons could have an adverse impact on our business. Our substantial international operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business results, including by restrictive taxation or other government regulation and by foreign currency fluctuations. We have substantial international operations. In fiscal 2007, approximately 51% of our net sales and a significant portion of our production were outside the United States, primarily in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Our corporate strategy includes the expansion and growth of our international business on a worldwide basis. As a result, our operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including risks of restrictive taxation policies, changing political conditions and governmental regulations. We also make a substantial portion of our net sales in currencies other than U.S. dollars (approximately 49% of 2007 net sales), which subjects us to the risks inherent in currency translations. The scope and volume of our global operations make it impossible to eliminate completely all foreign currency translation risks as an influence on our financial results. Large increases in the cost of petroleum-based raw materials could adversely affect us if we are unable to pass these cost increases through to our customers. Petroleum-based products comprise the predominant portion of the cost of raw materials that we use in manufacturing. While we attempt to match cost increases with corresponding price increases, continued large increases in the cost of petroleum-based raw materials could adversely affect our financial results if we are unable to pass through such price increases to our customers. Unanticipated termination or interruption of any of our arrangements with our primary third-party suppliers of synthetic fiber could have a material adverse effect on us. Invista Inc., a subsidiary of Koch Industries, Inc., currently supplies approximately 49% of our requirements for synthetic fiber (nylon), which is the principal raw material that we use in our carpet products. In addition, some of our businesses have a high degree of dependence on other third party suppliers of synthetic fiber for certain products or markets. The unanticipated termination or interruption of any of our supply arrangements with our current suppliers could have a material adverse effect on us because of the cost and delay associated with shifting more business to another supplier. We do not have a long-term supply agreement with Invista. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could have important negative consequences to us. Our substantial indebtedness could have important negative consequences to us, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to such indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other growth initiatives, and other general corporate requirements; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other growth initiatives, and other general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; - 14 - - • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • limiting our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness as it matures. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and the value of your investment may decline. The market price of our Class A common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile going forward. Such volatility may cause precipitous drops in the price of our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and may cause your investment in our common stock to lose significant value. As a general matter, market price volatility has had a significant effect on the market values of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. We thus cannot predict the market price for our common stock going forward. Our earnings in a future period could be adversely affected by non-cash adjustments to goodwill, if a future test of goodwill assets indicates a material impairment of those assets. As prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we undertake an annual review of the goodwill asset balance reflected in our financial statements. Our review is conducted during the fourth quarter of the year, unless there has been a triggering event prescribed by applicable accounting rules that warrants an earlier interim testing for possible goodwill impairment. In the past, we have had non-cash adjustments for goodwill impairment as a result of such testings ($44.5 million in 2007, $20.7 million in 2006, $29.0 million in 2004 and $55.4 million in 2002). A future goodwill impairment test may result in a future non-cash adjustment, which could adversely affect our earnings for any such future period. Our Chairman, together with other insiders, currently has sufficient voting power to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Our Chairman, Ray C. Anderson, beneficially owns approximately 50% of our outstanding Class B common stock. The holders of the Class B common stock are entitled, as a class, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Therefore, Mr. Anderson, together with other insiders, has sufficient voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors. On all other matters submitted to the shareholders for a vote, the holders of the Class B common stock generally vote together as a single class with the holders of the Class A common stock. Mr. Anderson’s beneficial ownership of the outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined is approximately 6%. Our Rights Agreement could discourage tender offers or other transactions for our stock that could result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for our stock. Our Board of Directors adopted a Rights Agreement in 1998 pursuant to which holders of our common stock will be entitled to purchase from us a fraction of a share of our Series B Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock if a third party acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock without our consent. In addition, the holders of our common stock will be entitled to purchase the stock of an Acquiring Person (as defined in the Rights Agreement) at a discount upon the occurrence of triggering events. These provisions of the Rights Agreements could have the effect of discouraging tender offers or other transactions that could result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock. On February 20, 2008, our Board of Directors determined to adopt a new shareholder rights agreement to succeed the 1998 Rights Agreement, which expires on March 17, 2008. We anticipate that the new rights agreement will be substantially similar to the 1998 Rights Agreement, and that we will enter into the new rights agreement prior to the expiration of the 1998 Rights Agreement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 15 - - ITEM 