ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond our control. We have identified a number of these factors below. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Forward-Looking Statements in MD&A. Our operations are weather sensitive. Our results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes, winter storms and droughts, can be destructive, causing outages, production delays and property damage that require us to incur additional expenses. We are subject to complex governmental regulation that could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. We must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. Management believes that the necessary approvals have been obtained for our existing operations and that our business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. However, new laws or regulations, or the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, may require us to incur additional expenses. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed our estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. In addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean-up at a site identified by a regulatory body. Management cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. We are exposed to cost-recovery shortfalls because of capped base rates and amendments to the fuel factor statute in effect in Virginia for our regulated electric utility. Under the 1999 Virginia Restructuring Act, as amended, our base rates remain capped through December 31, 2010 unless sooner modified or terminated. Although this Act allows for the recovery of certain generation-related costs during the capped rates period, we remain exposed to numerous risks of cost-recovery shortfalls. These risks include exposure to stranded costs, future environmental compliance requirements, certain tax law changes, costs related to hurricanes or other weather events, inflation, the cost of obtaining replacement power during unplanned plant outages and increased capital costs. In addition, our current Virginia fuel factor provisions are locked-in until July 1, 2007, with no deferred fuel accounting. As a result, until July 1, 2007 we are exposed to fuel price and other risks. These risks include exposure to increased costs of fuel, including purchased power costs, differences between our projected and actual power generation mix and generating unit performance (which affects the types and amounts of fuel we use) and differences between fuel price assumptions and actual fuel prices. 11 Table of Contents Annual fuel rate adjustments, with deferred fuel accounting for over- or under-recoveries of fuel costs, will be instituted for three twelve-month periods beginning July 1, 2007. The Virginia Commission is authorized to defer up to 40% of any fuel factor increase approved for the first twelve-month period, with recovery of the deferred amount over the two and one-half year period beginning July 1, 2008. There will also be an adjustment for one six-month period beginning July 1, 2010. Beginning July 1, 2007, our risk of under-recovering prudently incurred expenses until July 1, 2010 is greatly diminished. Because there will be no adjustment to account for differences between projections and actual recovery of fuel costs at the end of the six-month period beginning July 1, 2010, we will be exposed to fuel price and other risks during that period. Further, after December 31, 2010 (or upon the earlier termination of capped rates), fuel cost recovery provisions will cease and we will be exposed to the fuel price and other related risks as described above. The foregoing risks are subject to change upon the adoption, if any, of the proposed 2007 legislative amendments. The proposed legislation would end capped rates on December 31, 2008. The proposed legislation also calls for annual fuel cost recovery proceedings, beginning July 1, 2007 and continuing thereafter. The first annual increase as of July 1, 2007 would be limited to an amount that results in residential customers not receiving an increase of more than 4% of total rates as of that date, and the remainder would be deferred and collected in the years 2008 through 2010, as described under Status of Electric Restructuring in Virginia in MD&A. The Governor of Virginia has until March 26, 2007 to sign, propose amendments to, or veto the proposed legislation. We cannot predict the outcome of the legislation at this time. Our merchant power business is operating in a challenging market, which could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. The success of our merchant power business depends upon favorable market conditions as well as our ability to find buyers willing to enter into power purchase agreements at prices sufficient to cover operating costs. We attempt to manage these risks by entering into both short-term and long-term fixed price sales and purchase contracts and locating our assets in active wholesale energy markets. However, high fuel and commodity costs and excess capacity in the industry could adversely impact our results of operations. There are risks associated with the operation of nuclear facilities. We operate nuclear facilities that are subject to risks, including the threat of terrorist attack and ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the disposal of which is subject to complex federal and state regulatory constraints. These risks also include the cost of and our ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, costs of replacement power, costs of plant maintenance and exposure to potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities. We maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to mitigate the financial exposure to these risks. However, it is possible that costs arising from claims could exceed the amount of any insurance coverage. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. We use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, financial transmission rights, options and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. In addition, we purchase and sell commodity-based contracts in the natural gas, electricity and oil markets for trading purposes. We could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively-quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge future sales of our merchant generation and gas and oil production, which may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. These hedge arrangements generally include collateral requirements that require us to deposit funds or post letters of credit with counterparties to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. When commodity prices rise to levels substantially higher than the levels where we have hedged future sales, we may be required to use a material portion of our available liquidity and obtain additional liquidity to cover these collateral requirements. In some circumstances, this could have a compounding effect on our financial liquidity and results of operations. Derivatives designated under hedge accounting to the extent not fully offset by the hedged transaction can result in ineffectiveness losses. These losses primarily result from differences in the location and specifications of the derivative hedging instrument and the hedged item and could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations in regards to these transactions are subject to multiple market risks including market liquidity, counterparty credit strength and price volatility. These market risks are beyond our control and could adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. For additional information concerning derivatives and commodity-based trading contracts, see Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 2 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our E&P business is affected by factors that cannot be predicted or controlled and that could damage facilities, disrupt production or reduce the book value of our assets. Factors that may affect our financial results include, but are not limited to: damage to or suspension of operations caused by weather, fire, explosion or other events at our or third-party gas and oil facilities, fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices, results of future drilling and well completion activities, our ability to acquire additional land positions in competitive lease areas, operational risks that could disrupt production and geological and other uncertainties inherent in the estimate of gas and oil reserves. Short-term market declines in the prices of natural gas and oil could adversely affect our financial results by causing a permanent write-down of our natural gas and oil properties as required by the full cost method of accounting. Under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. If net capitalized costs exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues based on hedge-adjusted period-end prices from the production of proved gas and oil reserves (the ceiling test) at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write-down of the assets must be recognized in that period. In the past, we have maintained business interruption, property damage and other insurance for our E&P operations. However, the increased level of hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico led our insurers to terminate certain coverages for our E&P operations; specifically, our Operator’s Extra Expense (OEE), offshore property damage and offshore business interruption coverage was terminated. All onshore property coverage (with the exception of OEE) and liability coverage commensurate 12 Table of Contents with past coverage remained in place for our E&P operations. Our OEE coverage for both onshore and offshore E&P operations was reinstated under a new policy. However, efforts to replace the terminated insurance for our E&P operations for offshore property damage and offshore business interruption with similar insurance on commercially reasonable terms were unsuccessful. This lack of insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Our decision to pursue a sale of most of our E&P assets is expected to be dilutive to earnings, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and may not yield the benefits that we expect. On November 1, 2006, we announced our decision to pursue a sale of all of our E&P assets, excluding those assets located in the Appalachian Basin. We expect that a sale of our E&P assets would reduce future earnings in the near term. Although we expect that shareholder value would increase over time, we can give no assurance that this will occur. While our management believes it would be able to execute any sale or sales by mid-2007, we may not be able to sell our E&P assets within the expected time frame. If we sell our E&P assets, we cannot be certain of the price we would receive or the impact that such a sale and the use of proceeds from any sale would have on our results of operations. We may also incur significant costs or be required to record certain charges in connection with any sale and in connection with transactions related to the deployment of the proceeds from any sale. Additionally, uncertainty about the effect of the proposed disposition may have an adverse effect on the Company, particularly our E&P business. Although we have taken steps to reduce any adverse effects, including providing retention agreements for employees, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel and could cause partners, customers, suppliers and others that deal with our E&P business to seek to change future business relationships. Our E&P business could be harmed if, despite our retention efforts, key employees depart as a result of the proposed disposition. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of our business plan. Dominion and our Virginia Power and CNG subsidiaries rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and banks as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and collateral requirements related to hedges of future gas and oil production not satisfied by the cash flows from our operations. Management believes that Dominion and our subsidiaries will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of our control may increase our cost of borrowing or restrict our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or changes to our credit ratings. Restrictions on our ability to access financial markets may affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect our growth and business strategy. As of February 1, 2007, Dominion’s senior unsecured debt is rated BBB, positive outlook, by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (Standard & Poor’s); Baa2, stable outlook, by Moody’s Investors Services (Moody’s); and BBB+, stable outlook, by Fitch Ratings Ltd. (Fitch). In order to maintain our current credit ratings in light of existing or future requirements, we may find it necessary to take steps or change our business plans in ways that may adversely affect our growth and earnings per share. A reduction in Dominion’s credit ratings or the credit ratings of our Virginia Power and CNG subsidiaries by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect operating results and could require us to post additional collateral in connection with some of our price risk management activities. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect our financial results. We cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general, the energy industry or our operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect our reported earnings or could increase reported liabilities. Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our business is dependent on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high and the inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect our business and future operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 