Item 1A. Risk Factors Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond their control. A number of these factors have been identified below. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Forward-Looking Statements in Item 7. MD&A. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas, and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including hurricanes and winter storms, can be destructive, causing outages and property damage that require incurring additional expenses. Changes in weather conditions can result in reduced water levels or changes in water temperatures that could adversely affect operations at some of the Companies’ power stations. Furthermore, the Companies’ operations could be adversely affected and their physical plant placed at greater risk of damage should changes in global climate produce, among other possible conditions, unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, for operations located on or near coastlines, a change in sea level or sea temperatures. The rates of Dominion’s gas transmission and distribution operations and Virginia Power’s electric transmission, distribution and generation operations are subject to regulatory review. Revenue provided by Virginia Power’s electric transmission, distribution and generation operations and Dominion’s gas transmission and distribution operations is based primarily on rates approved by state and federal regulatory agencies. The profitability of these businesses is dependent on their ability, through the rates that they are permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on their capital investment. Virginia Power’s wholesale rates for electric transmission service are adjusted on an annual basis through operation of a FERC-approved formula rate mechanism. Through this mechanism, Virginia Power’s wholesale electric transmission cost of service is estimated and thereafter adjusted to reflect Virginia Power’s actual electric transmission costs incurred. These wholesale rates are subject to FERC review and prospective adjustment in the event that customers and/or interested state commissions file a complaint with FERC and are able to demonstrate that Virginia Power’s wholesale revenue requirement is no longer just and reasonable. Similarly, various rates and charges assessed by Dominion’s gas transmission businesses are subject to review by FERC. In addition, the rates of Dominion’s gas distribution businesses are subject to state regulatory review in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Virginia Power’s base rates, terms and conditions for generation and distribution services to customers in Virginia are reviewed by the Virginia Commission on a biennial basis in a proceeding that involves the determination of Virginia Power’s actual earned ROE during a combined two-year historic test period, and the determination of Virginia Power’s authorized ROE prospectively. Under certain circumstances described in the Regulation Act, Virginia Power may be required to share a portion of its earnings with customers through a refund process, and the Virginia Commission may order a base rate increase or reduction during the biennial review. Additionally, Virginia Power was required to discontinue deferral accounting for certain existing rate adjustment clauses as of December 1, 2011. As a result, Virginia Power may potentially not fully recover costs associated with these existing rate adjustment clauses. Virginia Power’s retail electric base rates for bundled generation, transmission, and distribution services to customers in North Carolina are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to North Carolina statutes, and the rules and procedures of the North Carolina Commission. If retail electric earnings exceed the returns established by the North Carolina Commission, retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the North Carolina Commission, which may decrease Virginia Power’s future earnings. Additionally, if the North Carolina Commission does not allow recovery through base rates, on a timely basis, of costs incurred in providing service, Virginia Power’s future earnings could be negatively impacted. Dominion and Virginia Power are subject to complex governmental regulation that could adversely affect their results of operations and subject the Companies to monetary penalties. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. These operations are also subject to legislation governing taxation at the federal, state and local level. They must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. Management believes that the necessary approvals have been obtained for existing operations and that the business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws. The Companies’ businesses are subject to regulatory regimes which could result in substantial monetary penalties if either Dominion or Virginia Power is found not to be in compliance, including mandatory reliability standards and interaction in the wholesale markets. New laws or regulations, the revision or reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, or penalties imposed for non-compliance with existing laws or regulations may result in substantial expense. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s generation business may be negatively affected by possible FERC actions that could change market design in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules or revenue calculations in the RTO markets. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s generation stations operating in RTO markets sell capacity, energy and ancillary services into wholesale electricity markets regulated by FERC. The wholesale markets allow these generation stations to take advantage of market price opportunities, but also expose them to market risk. Properly functioning competitive wholesale markets depend upon FERC’s continuation of clearly identified market rules. From time to time FERC may investigate and authorize RTOs to make changes in market design. FERC also periodically reviews Dominion’s authority to sell at market-based rates. Material changes by FERC to the design of the wholesale markets, Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s authority to sell power at market-based rates, or changes to pricing rules or rules involving revenue calculations, could adversely impact the future results of Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s generation business. Dominion and Virginia Power infrastructure build plans often require regulatory approval before construction can commence. Dominion and Virginia Power may not complete plant construction or expansion projects that they commence, or they may complete projects on materially different terms or timing than initially anticipated, and they may not be able to achieve the intended benefits of any such project, if completed. Several plant construction and expansion projects have been announced and additional projects may be considered in the 20 Table of Contents future. Commencing construction on announced plants requires approvals from applicable state and federal agencies. Projects may not be able to be completed on time as a result of weather conditions, delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals, delays in obtaining key materials, labor difficulties, difficulties with partners or potential partners, a decline in the credit strength of their counterparties or vendors, or other factors beyond their control. Even if plant construction and expansion projects are completed, the total costs of the projects may be higher than anticipated and the performance of the business of Dominion and Virginia Power following the projects may not meet expectations. Additionally, Dominion and Virginia Power may not be able to timely and effectively integrate the projects into their operations and such integration may result in unforeseen operating difficulties or unanticipated costs. Further, regulators may disallow recovery of some of the costs of a project if they are deemed not to be prudently incurred. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect the Companies’ ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the plant construction and expansion projects. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s current costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address global climate change, air quality, coal combustion by-products, cooling water and other matters could make certain of the Companies’ generation facilities uneconomical to maintain or operate. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and health and safety. Compliance with these legal requirements requires the Companies to commit significant capital toward permitting, emission fees, environmental monitoring, installation and operation of pollution control equipment and purchase of allowances and/or offsets. Additionally, the Companies could be responsible for expenses relating to remediation and containment obligations, including at sites where they have been identified by a regulatory agency as a potentially responsible party. Expenditures relating to environmental compliance have been significant in the past, and Dominion and Virginia Power expect that they will remain significant in the future. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and/or new laws may be adopted or become applicable to Dominion or Virginia Power. The EPA is expected to issue additional regulations with respect to air quality under the CAA, including revised NAAQS and regulations governing the emissions of GHGs from electric generating units. Risks relating to potential regulation of GHG emissions are discussed below. Dominion and Virginia Power also expect additional federal water and waste regulations, including regulations concerning cooling water intake structures and coal combustion by-product handling and disposal practices that are expected to be applicable to at least some of its generating facilities. Compliance costs cannot be estimated with certainty due to the inability to predict the requirements and timing of implementation of any new environmental rules or regulations. Other factors which affect the ability to predict future environmental expenditures with certainty include the difficulty in estimating clean-up costs and quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties. However, such expenditures, if material, could make the Companies’ facilities uneconomical to operate, result in the impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s results of operations, financial performance or liquidity. If additional federal and/or state requirements are imposed on energy companies mandating limitations on GHG emissions or requiring efficiency improvements, such requirements may result in compliance costs that alone or in combination could make some of Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s electric generation units or natural gas facilities uneconomical to maintain or operate. The EPA, environmental advocacy groups, other organizations and some state and other federal agencies are focusing considerable attention on GHG emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. Dominion and Virginia Power expect that additional EPA regulations, and possibly additional state legislation and/or regulations, may be issued resulting in the imposition of additional limitations on GHG emissions or requiring efficiency improvements from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. There are also potential impacts on Dominion’s natural gas businesses as federal or state GHG legislation or regulations may require GHG emission reductions from the natural gas sector and could affect demand for natural gas. Additionally, GHG requirements could result in increased demand for energy conservation and renewable products. Several regions of the U.S. have moved forward with GHG emission regulations including regions where Dominion has operations. For example, Massachusetts and Rhode Island have implemented regulations requiring reductions in CO2 emissions through RGGI, a cap and trade program covering CO2 emissions from power plants in the Northeast, which affects several of Dominion’s facilities. Compliance with GHG emission reduction requirements may require increasing the energy efficiency of equipment at facilities, committing significant capital toward carbon capture and storage technology, purchase of allowances and/or offsets, fuel switching, and/or retirement of high-emitting generation facilities and potential replacement with lower emitting generation facilities. The cost of compliance with GHG emission legislation and/or regulation is subject to significant uncertainties due to the outcome of several interrelated assumptions and variables, including timing of the implementation of rules, required levels of reductions, allocation requirements of the new rules, the maturation and commercialization of carbon capture and storage technology, and the selected compliance alternatives. The Companies cannot estimate the aggregate effect of such requirements on their results of operations, financial condition or their customers. However, such expenditures, if material, could make the Companies’ generation facilities uneconomical to operate, result in the impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s results of operations, financial performance or liquidity. Risks arising from the reliability of the Companies’ facilities supply chain disruptions or personnel issues could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. Operation of the Companies’ facilities involves risk, including the risk of potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure, fuel supply or transportation disruptions, accidents, labor disputes or work stoppages by employees, acts of terrorism or sabotage, construction delays or cost overruns, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents, earthquakes and other natural disasters can disrupt operation of the Companies’ facilities. Because Virginia Power’s transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of its facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. 21 Table of Contents Operation of the Companies’ facilities below expected capacity levels could result in lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs. Unplanned outages of the Companies’ facilities and extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of the Companies’ business. Unplanned outages typically increase the Companies’ operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce their revenues as a result of selling less output or may require the Companies to incur significant costs as a result of operating higher cost units or obtaining replacement output from third parties in the open market to satisfy forward energy and capacity or other contractual obligations. Moreover, if the Companies are unable to perform their contractual obligations, penalties or liability for damages could result. Dominion and Virginia Power have substantial ownership interests in and operate nuclear generating units; as a result, each may incur substantial costs and liabilities. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear facilities are subject to operational, environmental, health and financial risks such as the on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, limitations on the amounts and types of insurance available, potential operational liabilities and extended outages, the costs of replacement power, the costs of maintenance and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks. Dominion and Virginia Power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that future decommissioning costs could exceed amounts in the decommissioning trusts and/or damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. If Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s decommissioning trust funds are insufficient, and they are not allowed to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance, or in the case of Virginia Power through regulatory mechanisms, their results of operations could be negatively impacted. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s nuclear facilities are also subject to complex government regulation which could negatively impact their results of operations. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, set license conditions, shut down a nuclear unit, or take some combination of these actions, depending on its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require Dominion and Virginia Power to make substantial expenditures at their nuclear plants. In addition, although the Companies have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect their results of operations and/or financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world, such as the nuclear events in Japan in 2011, could cause the NRC to adopt increased safety regulations or otherwise limit or restrict the operation or licensing of domestic nuclear units. Dominion depends on third parties to produce the natural gas it gathers and processes, and the NGLs it fractionates at its facilities. A reduction in these quantities could reduce Dominion’s revenues. Dominion obtains its supply of natural gas and NGLs from numerous third-party producers. Such producers are under no obligation to deliver a specific quantity of natural gas or NGLs to Dominion’s facilities, although the producers that have con- tracted to supply natural gas to Dominion’s natural gas processing and fractionation facility under development in Natrium, West Virginia will generally be subject to contractual minimum fee payments. If producers were to decrease the supply of natural gas or NGLs to Dominion’s systems and facilities for any reason, Dominion could experience lower revenues to the extent it is unable to replace the lost volumes on similar terms. Dominion’s merchant power business is operating in a challenging market, which could adversely affect its results of operations and future growth. The success of Dominion’s merchant power business depends upon favorable market conditions including the ability to sell power at prices sufficient to cover its operating costs. Dominion operates in active wholesale markets that expose it to price volatility for electricity and fuel as well as the credit risk of counterparties. Dominion attempts to manage its price risk by entering into hedging transactions, including short-term and long-term fixed price sales and purchase contracts. In these wholesale markets, the spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. In many cases, the next unit of electricity supplied would be provided by generating stations that consume fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price for electricity generally reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert the fuel to electricity. Therefore, changes in the price of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. To the extent Dominion does not enter into long-term power purchase agreements or otherwise effectively hedge its output, these changes in market prices could adversely affect its financial results. Dominion purchases fuel under a variety of terms, including long-term and short-term contracts and spot market purchases. Dominion is exposed to fuel cost volatility for the portion of its fuel obtained through short-term contracts or on the spot market, including as a result of market supply shortages. Fuel prices can be volatile and the price that can be obtained for power produced from such fuel may not change at the same rate as fuel costs, thus adversely impacting Dominion’s financial results. Energy conservation could negatively impact Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s financial results. Certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by a fixed date. Additionally, technological advances driven by federal laws mandating new levels of energy efficiency in end-use electric devices, including lighting and electric heat pumps, could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption. To the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slowed growth in demand, the value of the Companies’ business activities could be adversely impacted. Exposure to counterparty performance may adversely affect the Companies’ financial results of operations. Dominion and Virginia Power are exposed to credit risks of their counterparties and the risk that one or more counterparties may fail or delay the performance of their contractual obligations, including but not limited to payment for services. Counterparties could fail or delay the performance of their contractual obligations for a number of reasons, including the effect of regulations on their operations. Such defaults by customers, suppliers or other third parties may adversely affect the Companies’ financial results. 22 Table of Contents Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets or increase Dominion’s liabilities, which could then require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trusts to satisfy future obligations to decommission Dominion’s nuclear plants and under its pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Dominion has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuation and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below expected return rates. With respect to decommissioning trust funds, a decline in the market value of these assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission Dominion’s nuclear plants or require additional NRC-approved funding assurance. A decline in the market value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy future obligations under Dominion’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans may increase the funding requirements under such plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Dominion’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. If the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets are negatively impacted by market fluctuations or other factors, Dominion’s results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows could be negatively affected. The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. Dominion and Virginia Power use derivative instruments, including futures, swaps, forwards, options and FTRs, to manage commodity and financial market risks. In addition, Dominion purchases and sells commodity-based contracts primarily in the natural gas market for trading purposes. The Companies could recognize financial losses on these contracts, including as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities, if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract or upon the failure or insolvency of a financial intermediary, exchange or clearinghouse used to enter, execute or clear these transactions. In the absence of actively-quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these contracts involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the under-lying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. The use of derivatives to hedge future sales may limit the benefit Dominion would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. These hedge arrangements generally include collateral requirements that require Dominion to deposit funds or post letters of credit with counterparties, financial intermediaries or clearinghouses to cover the fair value of covered contracts in excess of agreed upon credit limits. For instance, when commodity prices rise to levels substantially higher than the levels where it has hedged future sales, Dominion may be required to use a material portion of its available liquidity or obtain additional liquidity to cover these collateral requirements. In some circumstances, this could have a compounding effect on Dominion’s financial liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the availability or security of the collateral delivered by Dominion may be adversely affected by the failure or insolvency of a financial intermediary, exchange or clearinghouse used to enter, execute or clear these types of transactions. Derivatives designated under hedge accounting, to the extent not fully offset by the hedged transaction, can result in ineffectiveness losses. These losses primarily result from differences between the location and/or specifications of the derivative hedging instrument and the hedged item and could adversely affect Dominion’s results of operations. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operations in regards to these transactions are subject to multiple market risks including market liquidity, price volatility, credit strength of the Companies’ counterparties and the financial condition of the financial intermediaries, exchanges and clearinghouses used for the types of transactions. These market risks are beyond the Companies’ control and could adversely affect their results of operations, liquidity and future growth. The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted into law in July 2010 in an effort to improve regulation of financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions that will require certain over-the-counter derivatives, or swaps, to be centrally cleared and executed through an exchange or other approved trading platform. Non-financial entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk, often referred to as end users, can choose to exempt their hedging transactions from these clearing and exchange trading requirements. Final rules for the over-the-counter derivative-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will continue to be established through the ongoing rulemaking process of the applicable regulators. If, as a result of the rulemaking process, Dominion’s or Virginia Power’s derivative activities are not exempted from the clearing, exchange trading or margin requirements, the Companies could be subject to higher costs, including from higher margin requirements, for their derivative activities. In addition, implementation of, and compliance with, the over-the-counter derivative provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act by the Companies’ swap counterparties could result in increased costs related to the Companies’ derivative activities. Changing rating agency requirements could negatively affect Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s growth and business strategy. In order to maintain appropriate credit ratings to obtain needed credit at a reasonable cost in light of existing or future rating agency requirements, Dominion and Virginia Power may find it necessary to take steps or change their business plans in ways that may adversely affect their growth and earnings. A reduction in Dominion’s credit ratings or the credit ratings of Virginia Power could result in an increase in borrowing costs, loss of access to certain markets, or both, thus adversely affecting operating results and could require Dominion to post additional collateral in connection with some of its price risk management activities. An inability to access financial markets could adversely affect the execution of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s business plans. Dominion and Virginia Power rely on access to short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as significant sources of funding and liquidity for capital expenditures, normal working capital and collateral requirements related to hedges of future sales and purchases of energy-related commodities. Deterioration in the Companies’ creditworthiness, as evaluated by credit rating agencies or otherwise, or declines in market reputation either for the Companies or their industry in general, or general financial market disruptions outside of Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s control could increase their cost of borrowing or restrict their 23 Table of Contents ability to access one or more financial markets. Further market disruptions could stem from delays in the current economic recovery, the bankruptcy of an unrelated company, general market disruption due to general credit market or political events, or the failure of financial institutions on which the Companies rely. Increased costs and restrictions on the Companies’ ability to access financial markets may be severe enough to affect their ability to execute their business plans as scheduled. Potential changes in accounting practices may adversely affect Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s financial results. Dominion and Virginia Power cannot predict the impact that future changes in accounting standards or practices may have on public companies in general, the energy industry or their operations specifically. New accounting standards could be issued that could change the way they record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards could adversely affect earnings or could increase liabilities. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster and other significant events could adversely affect Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operations. Dominion and Virginia Power cannot predict the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the energy industry in general, or on the Companies’ business in particular. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect the Companies’ operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets. In addition, the Companies’ infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Furthermore, the physical compromise of the Companies’ facilities could adversely affect the Companies’ ability to manage these facilities effectively. Instability in financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors could result in a significant decline in the U.S. economy and increase the cost of insurance coverage. This could negatively impact the Companies’ results of operations and financial condition. Hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information, damage the reputation of the Companies and otherwise have an adverse effect on Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s business. The Companies own assets deemed as critical infrastructure, the operation of which is dependent on information technology systems. Further, the computer systems that run the Companies’ facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system or the Companies’ operations could view the Companies’ computer systems, software or networks as attractive targets for cyber attack. In addition, the Companies’ businesses require that they collect and maintain sensitive customer data, as well as confidential employee and shareholder information, which is subject to electronic theft or loss. A successful cyber attack on the systems that control the Companies’ electric generation, electric or gas transmission or distribution assets could severely disrupt business operations, preventing the Companies from serving customers or collecting revenues. The breach of certain business systems could affect the Companies’ ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to the Companies’ reputation. In addition, the misappropriation, corruption or loss of personally identifiable information and other confidential data could lead to significant breach notification expenses and mitigation expenses such as credit monitoring. The Companies maintain property and casualty insurance that may cover certain damage caused by potential cybersecurity incidents, however, other damage and claims arising from such incidents may not be covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could materially and adversely affect the Companies’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and other skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s operations. Dominion’s and Virginia Power’s business strategy is dependent on their ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high and the inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect their business and future operating results. An aging workforce in the energy industry necessitates recruiting, retaining and developing the next generation of leadership. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 