Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks and uncertainties contained elsewhere in this report or in our other SEC filings, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, many of which are largely out of our control. These factors include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles and changes in their business practices, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Due to our high fixed-cost structure, in the short-term it is difficult for us to adjust expenses proportionally with fluctuations in volume levels. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The factors contributing to these 10 Table of Contents risks and costs include weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, interest rates, fuel prices and taxes, fuel surcharge collection, terrorist attacks, license and registration fees, insurance premiums and self-insurance levels, difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified drivers, the risk of outbreak of epidemical illnesses, the risk of widespread disruption of our technology systems, and increasing equipment and operational costs. Our results of operations may also be affected by seasonal factors. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Numerous competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include the following: • We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which have a lower cost structure, more equipment and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages. • Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain or grow our business. • Our customers may negotiate rates or contracts that minimize or eliminate our ability to offset fuel price increases through a fuel surcharge on our customers. • Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. • Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors. • The trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. • Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. • Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices. If our relationship with our employees were to deteriorate, we may be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and place us at a disadvantage relative to non-union competitors. Virtually all of our operating subsidiaries have employees who are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (the “IBT”). These employees represent approximately 70% of our workforce. Each of Yellow Transportation, Roadway, New Penn and USF Holland employ most of their unionized employees under the terms of a common national master freight agreement with the IBT, as supplemented by additional regional supplements and local agreements. The IBT members have ratified a new five-year agreement that will take effect on April 1, 2008 and will expire on March 31, 2013. The IBT also represents a number of employees at USF Reddaway under more localized agreements, which have wages, benefit contributions and other terms and conditions that better fit the cost structure and operating models of these business units. Certain of our subsidiaries are regularly subject to grievances, arbitration proceedings and other claims concerning alleged past and current non-compliance with applicable labor law and collective bargaining agreements. Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries can predict the outcome of any of the matters discussed above. These matters, if resolved in a manner unfavorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Ongoing self-insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels. We currently self-insure for a majority of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and workers’ compensation. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and we may have to post additional letters of credit to support our insurance policies. If we lose our ability to self insure, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could reduce our income if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. Our business is capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our capital requirements, we may have to limit our growth, utilize our existing, or enter into additional, financing arrangements, including leasing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment (including tractors and trailers) for longer periods resulting in increased maintenance costs, any of which could reduce our income. If our cash from operations and existing financing arrangements are not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we may not be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us. We operate in an industry subject to extensive government regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. The U.S. Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security and various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations that the Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities impose, including regulations relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one time period, security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liabilities for violations of, existing or future laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things, the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of stormwater. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable environmental laws or regulations, it could significantly increase our cost of doing business. Under specific environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present terminals and at third party waste disposal sites. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. In addition, as global warming issues become more prevalent, federal and local governments and our customers are beginning to respond to these issues. This increased focus on sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements, as well as increased indirect costs or loss of revenue resulting from, among other things, our customers incurring additional compliance costs that affect our costs and revenues. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we haven’t complied with their sustainability requirements. These costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be obligated to make additional contributions to multi-employer pension plans. If a surcharge is assessed on any of the multi-employer pension plans to which our operating subsidiaries contribute and the funds available under our collective bargaining agreements are insufficient, we may have to contribute more to the plans than our contracted amounts. See the “Employee Benefits” note to our consolidated financial statements. Our management team is an important part of our business and loss of key personnel could impair our success. We benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. Other than William D. Zollars, our President and Chief Executive Officer, we have not entered into employment agreements for a fixed period with members of our current management. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies will be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot assure you that these measures will not significantly increase our costs and reduce our operating margins and income. The outcome of legal proceedings and IRS audits to which the Company and its subsidiaries are a party could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are a party to various legal proceedings, including claims related to personal injury, property damage, cargo loss, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liability and antitrust violations. See the “Commitments, Contingencies and Uncertainties” note to our consolidated financial statements. The IRS may issue adverse tax determinations in connection with its audit of our prior year tax returns or the returns of a consolidated group that we acquired in 2005. See the “Income Taxes” note to our consolidated financial statements. We may incur significant expenses defending these legal proceedings and IRS audits. In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements or taxes in connection with these proceedings and audits, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We may not obtain the projected benefits and cost savings from operational changes and performance improvement initiatives. In response to our business environment, we initiated operational changes and process improvements to reduce costs and improve financial performance. The changes and initiatives included reorganizing our management, reducing corporate overhead, closing redundant offices and eliminating unnecessary activities. There is no assurance that these changes and improvements will be successful or that we will not have to initiate additional changes and improvements in order to achieve the projected benefits and cost savings. Our credit agreement and other financing arrangements subject us to various covenants and restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility. Our credit agreement and other financing arrangements contain covenants and other restrictions that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial ratios and restrict our ability to take certain actions, including incur additional indebtedness. The covenants and restrictions in our financing arrangements may limit our ability to respond to market conditions or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting, among other things, the amount of additional borrowings we may incur. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Liquidity” for additional information regarding our liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 