Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business The FDA approval of milnacipran or any future product candidate is uncertain and will involve the commitment of substantial time and resources. The FDA has accepted the NDA application for milnacipran for review, but we may not receive regulatory approval from the FDA or any other regulatory body required for the commercial sale of milnacipran, or any future products in the United States for any number of reasons. In addition, even if we do obtain approval to market milnacipran, the approval process by the FDA may extend beyond the target PDUFA action date at the end of October 2008 due to additional data or analyses that the FDA may request. There are limited data supporting the use of milnacipran for the treatment of FM and such data have been generated by us. Although milnacipran is currently being sold by Pierre Fabre outside North America for a non-pain indication, it has only completed testing as a treatment for FM in our Phase II trial and our two Phase III trials. We must conduct and obtain favorable results in at least two pivotal Phase III trials to support an application for FDA approval of the product candidate. In September 2005, we reported top line 18. Table of Contents results from our first Phase III clinical trial for patients with FM and our trial did not achieve statistical significance on our prospectively specified primary endpoint. Although we submitted the NDA using our first and second Phase III clinical trials around the end of 2007, based in part on an FDA recommended re-analysis of the first Phase III trial, and the NDA has been accepted, the FDA may not ultimately accept the first trial as one of the registration quality studies necessary to support NDA approval and may find that the conditions of the Special Protocol Assessment have not been met. It is also possible that our ongoing third Phase III trial for milnacipran will not achieve statistical significance or will otherwise generate data that is unfavorable. In addition, we do not anticipate obtaining results from our third Phase III trial until the second half of 2008. Although we believe based on our analysis of the data, that the effect of milnacipran has been durable in clinical trial patients studied to date, further studies may prove that any positive effects from patients taking milnacipran may not be durable. Further, all or any of our clinical trials may reveal that milnacipran is not safe. If milnacipran is not demonstrated to be a safe and effective treatment for FM to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies we will not receive regulatory approval and our business would be materially harmed. Furthermore, recent publicity related to drug safety issues in the market, as well as enhanced statutory authority of the FDA in the area of drug safety, may make approval of any drug by the FDA more difficult. The regulatory approval of a new drug typically takes many years and the outcome is uncertain. Despite the time and resources expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for milnacipran, or any future therapeutic product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell any therapeutic products and therefore may never generate any revenues from therapeutic product sales or become profitable. In addition, our collaborators, or our third-party manufacturers’ failure to comply with the FDA and other applicable United States or foreign regulations may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and refusal to approve new drug approval applications. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense, preclinical research and clinical trials for each product candidate sufficient to demonstrate its safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries where the product candidate will be marketed if approved. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product, the disease or condition that the product is in development for and the regulations applicable to any particular product. The regulatory process typically also includes a review of the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and standards, including the cGMP requirements. The FDA can delay, limit or decline to grant approval for many reasons, including: • a product candidate may not be safe or effective; • we may not achieve statistical significance for the primary endpoint; • FDA officials may interpret data from preclinical testing, clinical trials, and/or pharmacovigilance data from use of milnacipran outside of the United States in different ways than we interpret such data; • the FDA might not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities, or the processes or facilities of any future collaborators or contract manufacturers, including Pierre Fabre’s facility for the manufacture of the active ingredient in milnacipran; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; and • the FDA may request additional data. 19. Table of Contents We may not successfully integrate the business or personnel we recently acquired in connection with our acquisition of Proprius. As part of our strategy, we are actively evaluating potential strategic transactions, including the acquisitions of products, product candidates, technologies and companies, in order to expand our product pipeline and service offerings. We recently acquired Proprius, a formerly private San Diego-based personalized medicine laboratory services and specialty pharmaceutical company and now one of our subsidiaries. We do not have any experience in the personalized medicine laboratory services business and face many challenges with respect to the integration of the two companies. Our acquisition of Proprius will expose us to operational and financial risks, including: • higher development or commercialization costs than we anticipate for the personalized medicine laboratory services and therapeutic products; • challenges with running a services business; • higher than expected licensing and integration costs; • exposure to liabilities of licensed and acquired intellectual property, compounds, products and services; and • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention as part of integrating Proprius’ business with our operations. We will devote significant resources to our new business and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefit of this strategic transaction with Proprius. We may not be successful in creating a commercial infrastructure. We intend to create a commercial infrastructure in order to launch our diagnostic business but may not be successful in so doing by the end of 2008, or at all, especially in light of the fact that we currently do not have a sales force. We also have exercised our co-promotion right which will also us to co-promote milnacipran under our agreement with Forest Laboratories and be paid by Forest for the milnacipran portion of the sales details. The co-promotion right is subject to our building our own marketing and sales capabilities, and we currently do not have the ability to directly sell, market or distribute any product. Many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in selling, marketing and distributing products and services, and we may not be able to compete successfully with them with the sales force we develop. Although we intend to build a sales force to launch our personalized medicine laboratory services business, this may not occur in a timely fashion, or at all. If it does not occur in a timely fashion, we may lose our co-promotion right with respect to milnacipran. Also, because we may begin creating our sales force prior to the date on which we will obtain information with respect to the FDA’s decision whether or not to approve milnacipran for FM, and because milnacipran may never be approved, we may never realize the strategic synergies that would have been obtained if a portion of our sales force was funded by Forest Laboratories, and we may consequently incur greater commercial costs to promote the personalized medicine laboratory services. Even though we intend to offer, over time, integrated diagnostic and therapeutic services through the same sales organization, this may not facilitate greater physician access or improve the quality of the sales call, and it may not help establish Cypress as a leader targeting these specific specialists. 20. Table of Contents In the event that our agreement with Forest Laboratories is terminated, or with respect to any other product we may develop which is not covered by our collaboration with Forest Laboratories, we would have to obtain the assistance of a pharmaceutical company or other entity with a large distribution system and a large direct sales force, or build a substantial marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. We may not be able to enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful. We are dependent on our collaboration with Forest Laboratories to develop and commercialize milnacipran and to obtain regulatory approval. Events or circumstances may occur that delay or prevent the development and commercialization of milnacipran. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration agreement with Forest Laboratories, we granted Forest Laboratories an exclusive sublicense for the development and marketing of milnacipran, for all indications in the United States. Forest exercised its option to extend the territory to include Canada. In addition, Forest Laboratories has the option to acquire an exclusive license from us in the United States and Canada, to any compounds developed under our agreement with Collegium Pharmaceutical, Inc. Forest Laboratories is responsible for funding the development of milnacipran, including clinical trials and regulatory approval, other than the external costs of the second Phase III trial, which we have funded, and the remainder of such funded costs are reimbursable to us in the event the NDA is approved by the FDA. If the FDA approves milnacipran, Forest Laboratories will also have primary responsibility for the marketing and sale of the approved product and will share responsibility for compliance with regulatory requirements. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Forest Laboratories will dedicate to the development, approval and marketing of milnacipran. Further, it is possible that they may terminate development and our license agreement with them. Even if they continue to develop milnacipran, they may do so on a slower timeline than originally predicted. We are conducting a third Phase III clinical trial for which target enrollment is 1,000 patients and our development timeline could be extended beyond our current expectation, which is that we will have results from this clinical trial in the second half of 2008. Our ability to generate milestone and royalty payments from Forest Laboratories depends on Forest Laboratories’ ability to establish the safety and efficacy of milnacipran, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of milnacipran for the treatment of FM. We are subject to a number of additional risks associated with our dependence on our collaboration with Forest Laboratories, including: • Forest Laboratories could fail to devote sufficient resources to the development, approval, commercialization, or marketing and distribution of any products developed under our collaboration agreement, including by failing to develop specialty sales forces if such sales forces are necessary for the most effective distribution of any approved product; • We and Forest Laboratories could disagree as to development plans, including the number and timing of clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy, or as to which additional indications for milnacipran should be pursued, if any, and therefore milnacipran may never be developed for any indications other than FM; • Forest Laboratories could independently develop, develop with third parties or acquire products that could compete with milnacipran, including drugs approved for other indications used by physicians off-label for the treatment of FM; 21. Table of Contents • Forest Laboratories could stop the ongoing third Phase III clinical trial of milnacipran for the treatment of FM or any other clinical trials for milnacipran or abandon or underfund the development of milnacipran, repeat or conduct additional clinical trials or require a new formulation of milnacipran for clinical testing, or delay the commencement of any additional clinical trials for milnacipran for the treatment of FM; and • Disputes regarding the collaboration agreement that delay or terminate the development, commercialization or receipt of regulatory approvals of milnacipran, may delay or prevent the achievement of clinical or regulatory objectives that would result in the payment of milestone payments or result in significant litigation or arbitration. Furthermore, Forest Laboratories may terminate our collaboration agreement upon our material breach or our bankruptcy and may also terminate our agreement upon 120 days’ notice in the event Forest Laboratories reasonably determines that the development program indicates issues of safety or efficacy that are likely to prevent or significantly delay the filing or approval of an NDA or to result in labeling or indications that would significantly adversely affect the marketing of any product developed under the agreement. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to find another collaborator for development or commercialization, and even if we elected to pursue further development and commercialization of milnacipran, we would experience substantially increased capital requirements that we might not be able to fund. All of our personalized medicine laboratory services are going to be performed at a single laboratory and, in the event this facility was to be affected by man-made or natural disasters, our operations could be severely impaired. We intend to perform all our diagnostic testing services in our laboratory located in San Diego, California. Despite precautions taken by us, any future natural or man-made disaster at this laboratory, such as a fire, earthquake or terrorist activity, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment and biological samples or cause us to incur additional expenses. In the event of an extended shutdown of our laboratory, we may be unable to perform our diagnostic testing services in a timely manner or at all and therefore would be unable to operate our business in a commercially competitive manner. We cannot assure you that we could recover quickly from a serious natural or man-made disaster or that we would not permanently lose customers as a result of any such business interruption. This could harm our operating results and financial condition. In order to rely on a third party to perform our diagnostic testing services, we could only use another facility with established state licensure and accreditation under CLIA. We may not be able to find another CLIA-certified facility and comply with applicable procedures, or find any such laboratory that would be willing to perform the tests for us on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, any new laboratory opened by us would be subject to certification under CLIA and licensure by various states, which would take a significant amount of time and result in delays in our ability to begin operations. Failure to timely or accurately bill for our personalized medicine laboratory services could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and bad debt expense. Billing for diagnostic testing can be extremely complicated. Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we must bill various payors, such as insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid, physicians, hospitals, employer groups and patients, all of which have different billing requirements. Additionally, compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further complexity to the billing process. Changes in laws and regulations could negatively impact our ability to bill our clients or increase our costs. CMS also establishes procedures and continuously evaluates and implements changes to the reimbursement process for billing government programs. 22. Table of Contents Missing or incorrect information on test requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled tests, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. Failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing federal healthcare programs could also lead to various penalties, including: • exclusion from participation in Medicare/Medicaid programs; • asset forfeitures; • civil and criminal fines and penalties; and • the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. Any of these penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. We rely upon an exclusive license from Pierre Fabre in order to develop and sell our milnacipran product candidate, and our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of milnacipran for the treatment of FM depends upon the continuation of our license from Pierre Fabre. Our license agreement with Pierre Fabre provides us with an exclusive license to develop and sell any products with the compound milnacipran as an active ingredient for any indication in the United States and Canada, with a right to sublicense certain rights to Forest Laboratories under our collaboration with Forest Laboratories. Either we or Pierre Fabre may terminate the license agreement for cause upon 90 days’ prior written notice to the other party upon the bankruptcy or dissolution of the other party, or upon a breach of any material provision of the agreement if the breach is not cured within 90 days following the written notice. Furthermore, Pierre Fabre has the right to terminate the agreement upon 90 days’ prior notice to us if we and Forest terminate our development and marketing activities with respect to milnacipran, if we challenge certain patent rights of Pierre Fabre and under specified other circumstances. If our license agreement with Pierre Fabre were terminated, we would lose our rights to develop and commercialize products using the compound milnacipran as an active ingredient, as the compound is manufactured under Pierre Fabre patents and using Pierre Fabre know-how and trade secrets, and it would be unlikely that we could obtain the active ingredient in milnacipran from any other source. We rely upon Pierre Fabre as our exclusive supplier of the compound used as the active ingredient in our milnacipran product candidate and if Pierre Fabre fails to supply us sufficient quantities of the active ingredient it may delay or prevent us from developing and commercializing milnacipran. Pursuant to our purchase and supply agreement with Pierre Fabre, Pierre Fabre is the exclusive supplier to us and Forest Laboratories of the compound used as the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our milnacipran product candidate. Neither we nor Forest Laboratories have facilities for the manufacture of milnacipran. Currently, Pierre Fabre manufactures the active ingredient of milnacipran in its facility in Gaillac, France. Pierre Fabre is the only worldwide supplier of the active ingredient of milnacipran that is currently approved for sale for a non-pain indication outside the United States, but is not approved for sale in the United States. If any product is commercialized under the agreement, Pierre Fabre or its sublicensee will have the exclusive right to manufacture the active ingredient used in our commercial product. If 23. Table of Contents milnacipran is commercialized for use in the United States, Pierre Fabre’s facility or its sublicensee will need to be inspected by the FDA for compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements. Due to the projected commercial quantities of milnacipran that we may require and to provide a second manufacturing site, Pierre Fabre has agreed that within a certain time period after commercial launch of milnacipran, it will qualify an additional manufacturing facility. We do not have control over Pierre Fabre’s compliance with cGMP requirements or Pierre Fabre’s compliance with its obligation to qualify a second manufacturing facility. If Pierre Fabre fails or is unable to provide, in a timely and economic manner, required quantities of the active ingredient that Forest Laboratories or we request for clinical purposes, our development program could be delayed. In addition, if Pierre Fabre fails to timely and economically supply us sufficient quantities for commercial sale, if milnacipran is ever commercialized, our product sales and market acceptance of the product could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our purchase and supply agreement may be terminated for cause either by us or by Pierre Fabre upon 90 days’ prior written notice to the other party upon a material breach of the agreement if the breach is not cured within 90 days following the written notice. We have the right to manufacture milnacipran if Pierre Fabre does not have a required buffer stock or in the event that we terminate our license agreement with Pierre Fabre under certain circumstances. If our purchase and supply agreement with Pierre Fabre is terminated, we are unlikely to be able to qualify another supplier of the active ingredient within a reasonable time period, and our ability to develop and commercialize milnacipran will be significantly impaired. Our agreements with Pierre Fabre and Forest Laboratories restrict our ability to develop specified compounds, which limits how we can expand our product candidates. Under our agreements with Pierre Fabre and Forest Laboratories, Forest Laboratories has agreed to pay Pierre Fabre and us a royalty, in the event that Forest Laboratories sells a product other than milnacipran for FM for a specified period of time, which shall not be less than three years. We are, in turn, obligated to pay a portion of the royalty we receive from Forest Laboratories to Pierre Fabre. In addition, each of us is subject to limitations related to each party’s development of any serotonin norephinephrine reuptake inhibitor, or SNRI, products other than milnacipran. These limitations include: (i) a prohibition on developing an SNRI product for specified indications for which milnacipran is being developed; and (ii) a prohibition on developing an SNRI product for any indication for a specified time period, and after such specified time period, a requirement that if one of the parties launches and sells an SNRI product that is prescribed off-label for any indication for which milnacipran is being developed, the selling party must reimburse the other parties for lost sales due to the off-label use. Provisions in our collaboration agreement with Forest Laboratories and our license agreement with Pierre Fabre may prevent or delay a change in control. Our collaboration agreement with Forest Laboratories provides that Forest Laboratories may elect to terminate our co-promotion rights for milnacipran or any other product developed under the collaboration agreement and we may lose our decision-making authority with respect to the development of milnacipran if we engage in a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or if another person or entity acquires at least 50% of our voting capital stock. Our license agreement with Pierre Fabre provides that Pierre Fabre may elect to terminate the agreement upon a change in control transaction in which a third party acquirer of us controls an SNRI product, and the acquirer does not take certain actions (e.g., divestiture of such SNRI product) within a specified time period to cure the breach of certain restrictions in the agreement that results from such SNRI product. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or may reduce the number of companies interested in acquiring us. 24. Table of Contents We are at an early stage of development and we do not have and may never develop any commercial services or products that generate revenues. We are at an early stage of development as a biotechnology company and do not have any commercial services or products. Our current product and services candidates, as well as any future products and services that we may acquire or develop, will require significant additional development, appropriate regulatory approval, and additional investments before they can be commercialized, if ever. Our product development and product acquisition efforts may not lead to commercial services or drugs, either because the service and product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective, or because we have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue clinical development of the service and product candidate or because the FDA, CMS or state authorities do not grant or otherwise withdraw or revoke a regulatory approval. For example, in mid-2006, we discontinued our obstructive sleep apnea program because our Phase IIa trials did not support continued development. In addition, we may not achieve our internal timelines, including reporting results from our third Phase III clinical trial for milnacipran in the second half of 2008. Rheumatologists do not currently use personalized medicine laboratory services to predict which of their patients with undifferentiated arthritis will go on to develop RA, or to determine the level of MTX polyglutamates among their patients on MTX. We may be unable to drive awareness of, and to establish the clinical need for, these personalized medicine laboratory services, and therefore may be unable to successfully commercialize these products and services. Further, if we are unable to commercialize the MTX Polyglutamates Test and the Early RA Prediction algorithm, or any of the other personalized medicine laboratory services under development as part of the Proprius acquisition, are unable to develop the topical NSAID and RA treatment under development as part of the Proprius acquisition, and Forest Laboratories and Cypress are unable to develop milnacipran as a commercial drug in the United States, or if such development is delayed, we will be unable to generate revenues, may be unsuccessful in raising additional capital and may cease our operations. Even if we do commercialize any product or personalized medicine laboratory service, we still may not ever achieve profitability. If we receive regulatory approval for milnacipran or any other future product candidate, and secure and maintain regulatory approvals related to our personalized medicine laboratory services, we will be subject to ongoing FDA, CLIA and state regulatory obligations and continuing regulatory review by applicable regulatory authorities. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaborators receive for milnacipran or any future product candidates will be limited to the indications, dosages and restrictions on the product label. We currently are seeking approval for milnacipran in the treatment of FM. The FDA may not approve milnacipran for our preferred indication at all, may approve milnacipran for a more limited indication, or may impose additional limitations on the indicated uses or require post-marketing surveillance or the performance of potentially costly post-marketing studies. Even if we receive FDA and other regulatory approvals, as we have seen with other products on the market for pain, milnacipran or any of our other future product candidates may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or prevent their widespread use or that force us to withdraw those product candidates from the market. The most common treatment emergent adverse events during the placebo-controlled clinical trials of milnacipran for FM included nausea (37% vs. 20% placebo), headache (18% vs. 14% placebo), constipation (16% vs. 4% placebo), hot flashes (12% vs. 2% placebo), hyperhidrosis (9% vs. 2% placebo), vomiting (7% vs. 2% placebo), palpitations (7% vs. 2% placebo), heart rate increase (6% vs. 1% placebo), dry mouth (5% vs. 2% placebo) and hypertension (5% vs. 2% placebo). Any marketed product and its manufacturer continue to be subject to strict FDA regulation after approval, including regulation of product labeling and packaging, adverse event reporting, manufacture, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping. Any unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of 25. Table of Contents regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. Federal and state regulatory approvals we may receive related to planned or future personalized medicine laboratory services will mandate specific clinical laboratory approval standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality and inspections, and our failure to meet and maintain those approvals could adversely affect our ability to offer personalized medicine laboratory products and services. In addition, the FDA has in the past and may in the future claim regulatory authority over laboratory-developed tests, in which event our personalized medicine laboratory services may directly or indirectly become subject to FDA approval. If advances in technology allow others to perform diagnostic tests which are similar to or better than ours or to perform such services in a more efficient or cost-effective manner than is currently possible, our personalized medicine laboratory services may not meet with demand in the marketplace or the demand for these services may decrease. The diagnostic industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technology that may enable clinical laboratories, hospitals, physicians or other medical providers to perform personalized medicine laboratory services similar to or better than ours in a more efficient or cost-effective manner than is currently possible. In the event that we launch our personalized medicine laboratory services, and then other advances in technology result in a decreased demand for our personalized medicine laboratory services, our financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, in order for our business to be successful, we may need to develop new diagnostic tests or improve existing diagnostic tests. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to develop or improve these personalized medicine laboratory services in the future. Even if we successfully develop such services in a timely manner, these new tests may not be utilized by our customers. If we fail to develop new services or release new or improved tests on a timely basis, or if such tests do not obtain market acceptance, our financial condition and results of operations could also be harmed. We rely on third parties to conduct all of our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize milnacipran or any of our other future product candidates. As of March 5, 2008, we had only 23 full-time employees. We have in the past and expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct all of our clinical trials. Because we do not conduct our own clinical trials, we must rely on the efforts of others and cannot always control or predict accurately the timing of such trials, the costs associated with such trials or the procedures that are followed for such trials. We expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct all of our future clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, or if they fail to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations and standards, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize milnacipran, or any of our other future product candidates. Even if our product candidates are approved or our personalized medicine laboratory service candidates are commercialized, the market may not accept these products or services. Even if our service and product development efforts are successful and even if the requisite regulatory approvals are obtained, the MTX Polyglutamates Test, the Early RA Prediction Algorithm, milnacipran, or any future product candidates that we may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The FDA has only approved the first drug recently for the management of FM, and we cannot predict whether milnacipran, if approved, will gain 26. Table of Contents market acceptance. A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance of our services and products including the following: • timing of market entry relative to competitive services and products; • extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; • rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; • rate of a product’s acceptance by the target community; • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our services and products relative to alternative therapies; • availability of third-party reimbursement; and • the prevalence or severity of side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. If the MTX Polyglutamates Test, the Early RA Prediction Algorithm, milnacipran, or any future product candidates that we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, we may lose our investment in that product candidate, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our competitors may develop and market products and services that are less expensive, more effective or safer, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any products or services we may commercialize. The pharmaceutical and diagnostic industries are highly competitive and require an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovation. They also require, among other things, the ability to effectively discover, develop, test, commercialize, market and promote products, including communicating the effectiveness, safety and value of products to actual and prospective customers, including medical professionals. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. This enables them, among other things, to spread their marketing and promotion costs over a broader revenue base. Other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical and diagnostic industries include quality and price, product technology, reputation, customer service and access to technical information. It is possible that developments by our competitors could make our products, personalized medicine laboratory services or technologies less competitive or obsolete. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to provide products and services which are more effective than those of our competitors and to keep pace with rapid medical and scientific change. Sales of our existing product candidates, if initiated, may decline rapidly if a new product is introduced by a competitor, particularly if a new product represents a substantial improvement over any of our existing products. In addition, the high level of competition in our industry could force us to reduce the price at which we sell our products or require us to spend more to market our products. With respect to our FM program, in June 2007, the FDA approved Pfizer Inc.’s drug pregabalin (Lyrica®) for the management of FM. In addition, Eli Lilly and Company conducted a Phase III program for duloxetine (Cymbalta®) as a treatment for FM and announced in August 2007 that they filed the sNDA for FM. Duloxetine is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, and as a dual reuptake inhibitor is therefore similar in pharmacology to milnacipran, which is a norepinephrine serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Based on the similar pharmacology, it is anticipated that duloxetine, which is currently approved for the treatment of depression and neuropathic pain, is receiving some off-label use for the treatment of FM. Tricyclic antidepressants, or TCAs, which are available as inexpensive generic formulations, are also used to treat FM and will likely be less expensive than milnacipran if milnacipran receives FDA approval. 27. Table of Contents The market potential for FM is considerable and a number of pharmaceutical companies focused on therapies for alleviating pain or antidepressant therapies could decide to evaluate their current product candidates for the treatment of FM at any time. Due to the high prevalence and incidence of FM, we anticipate that most, if not all, of the major pharmaceutical companies will have significant research and product development programs in FM. We expect to encounter significant competition both in the United States and in foreign markets for each of the drugs that we seek to develop. With respect to our personalized medicine laboratory services, we compete with several large, national laboratories including Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, or Quest, and Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, and also compete with regional and hospital laboratories. The larger competitors have substantially greater financial and human resources, existing access to the medical community, as well as a much larger infrastructure than we do. Other companies may develop personalized medicine laboratory services that are more sensitive, specific, easy to use, or cost-effective than our personalized medicine laboratory services, and we may therefore be unable to compete with them in the marketplace. Our competition for pharmaceutical products will be partially determined by the potential indications that are ultimately cleared for marketing by regulatory authorities, the timing of any clearances and market introductions and whether any currently available drugs, or drugs under development by others, are effective in the same indications. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop milnacipran, complete the clinical trials, receive regulatory clearance and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market is expected to be an important competitive factor. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability and patent protection. We have agreed to pay certain external expenses associated with our second Phase III clinical trial evaluating milnacipran for FM and may never receive the second payment of approximately $6.5 million. We paid for the majority of the external costs of the second Phase III clinical trial evaluating milnacipran for FM, which were approximately $9.7 million. Forest has repaid us $3.2 million and will repay the additional two-thirds of the amount, or approximately $6.5 million, only if the NDA is approved. It is possible that the NDA may not be approved by the FDA, in which event we would not be reimbursed by Forest Laboratories for the $6.5 million in expenses we funded in connection with the second Phase III clinical trial. We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our product candidates or personalized medicine laboratory services, could hinder or prevent our product candidate’s or personalized medicine laboratory services’ commercialization success. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance and managed care organizations and other health care payors to contain or reduce prescription drug costs may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products and services; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. 28. Table of Contents Successful commercialization of milnacipran in the United States will depend in part on the extent to which government, insurance and managed care organizations and other health care payors establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for prescription drugs. Third-party payors are also encouraging the use of generic drugs. These trends could influence health care purchases, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs and result in the exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs or lower the prices of our product candidates. Our revenues from the sale of any approved products could be significantly reduced as a result of these cost containment measures and reforms. Market acceptance of our personalized medicine laboratory services and the majority of our anticipated diagnostics sales will likely depend, in large part, on the availability of adequate payment or reimbursement from insurance plans, including government plans such as Medicare, managed care organizations, private insurance plans and other third-party payors. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor’s determination that a service is not experimental or investigational, and that it is medically necessary, appropriate for a specific patient, cost effective or supported by peer-reviewed publications. Because each third-party payor individually approves payment or reimbursement, obtaining these approvals can be a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of these services to each third-party payor separately with no assurance that approval will be obtained. This individualized process or any action by the government negatively affecting payment for or reimbursement of our services can delay the market acceptance of new services and may have a negative effect on our revenues and operating results. We believe third-party payors are increasingly limiting coverage for personalized medicine laboratory services, and in many instances are exerting pressure on service suppliers to reduce their prices. Consequently, third-party payment or reimbursement may not be consistently available or adequate to cover the cost of our services. Additionally, third-party payors who have previously approved a specific level of payment or reimbursement may reduce that level. Under prospective payment systems, in which healthcare providers may be paid or reimbursed a set amount based on the type of diagnostic procedure performed, such as those utilized by Medicare and in many private managed care systems, the cost of our personalized medicine laboratory services may not be justified and reimbursed. Any limitations on payment or reimbursement for our services could limit our ability to commercialize and sell new services or to continue to sell our existing services, or may cause the selling prices of our existing services to be reduced, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We rely on our employees and consultants for their scientific and technical expertise in connection with our business operations. We rely significantly on the scientific and technical expertise of our employees and consultants to conduct our business. As of March 5, 2008, we had only 23 full-time employees and therefore, we rely heavily on each of our employees. In addition, because we have a small number of employees, we rely much more on consultants than do other companies. If any of our relationships with our employees or consultants are terminated, we may lose access to scientific knowledge and expertise necessary for the research, development and commercialization of milnacipran or any future product candidates. We expect to continue to rely on consultants and our current employees for scientific and technical knowledge and expertise essential to our business. 29. Table of Contents Our employment agreement with our chief executive officer provides for “at will” employment, which means that he may terminate his services to us at any time. In addition, although we have employment agreements with the four employees that joined us in connection with the acquisition of Proprius, they may choose to terminate services to us at any time. Were these employees to terminate their services with us, our ability to integrate Proprius’ operations with our own and effectively direct Proprius’ business would be diminished, at least temporarily. There is no guarantee that these employees will remain with Cypress. In addition, our scientific advisors may terminate their services to us at any time. We may be subject to product liability claims that could cause us to incur liabilities beyond our insurance coverage. We plan to continue conducting clinical trials on humans using milnacipran and our other Proof of Concept stage development candidates and the use of milnacipran and these other development candidates may result in adverse effects. Although we are aware that there are side effects associated with milnacipran and these other development candidates, we cannot predict all possible harm or side effects that may result from the treatment of patients with milnacipran or any of our future product candidates, and the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be adequate to protect us from any liabilities. We currently maintain $10,000,000 in insurance for product liability claims. We may not have sufficient resources to pay any liability resulting from such a claim beyond our insurance coverage. We have a history of operating losses and we may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses during our history. For the years ended December 2006 and 2005, we incurred net losses of $8.3 million and $7.7 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $150.0 million. Our ability to become profitable will depend upon our and Forest Laboratories’ ability to develop, market and commercialize milnacipran, and our ability to develop, market and commercialize our personalized medicine laboratory services and any other products we may develop. We may not generate revenue from the sale of products for the next few years or become profitable in the foreseeable future and may never achieve profitability. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to scale back or discontinue the completion of any proposed acquisitions or adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits of any completed acquisitions. We will incur certain non-reimbursable expenses in connection with the development of milnacipran, and will also incur costs in the development of the personalized medicine laboratory services and therapeutic products that we acquired in connection with the acquisition of Proprius, and in building our sales force and the exercise of our co-promotion right for milnacipran. We are also incurring expenses in connection with our proof of concept trials, the evaluation of potential acquisitions or other strategic transactions and will incur additional expenses in the event we close any such transactions or enter into any co-promotion, in-licensing or collaboration agreements in connection with any such transactions. We may also be required to pay up to $37.5 million in potential milestone-related payments associated with the development of certain therapeutic candidates acquired in our merger with Proprius. We do not have any committed external sources of funding and we will likely need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt. The amount of capital we will require will depend upon many factors, including but not limited to, the size and timing of our proposed sale force, how much is ultimately required to develop the products and personalized medicine laboratory services we acquired in connection with our acquisition of Proprius, the evaluation and potential closing of any strategic transactions and the development strategy for milnacipran. If we are unable to raise capital when we need it, we may have to scale back or discontinue the evaluation or completion of any proposed acquisitions or strategic transaction(s). 30. Table of Contents Raising additional funds by issuing securities, or through collaboration and licensing arrangements, may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations, or require us to relinquish propriety rights. We may attempt to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, as we did in June 2007 with a public equity offering, or through debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. For example, under our reformulation and new product agreement with Collegium Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Collegium, Collegium may require that any milestone payments we are required to make to Collegium be paid with shares of our common stock. In addition, the potential milestone payments due to the stockholders of Proprius may be paid in up to 50% stock of Cypress, at our election. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership percentage will be diluted. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potential valuable rights to our potential products on terms that are not favorable to us. We may lose our net operating loss carryforwards, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. We have incurred substantial losses during our history and do not expect to become profitable in the foreseeable future and may never achieve profitability. To the extent that we continue to generate taxable losses, unused losses will carry forward to offset future taxable income, if any, until such unused losses expire. All unused federal net operating losses will expire 15 or 20 years after any year in which they were generated. The carryforward period is 15 years for losses incurred prior to 1996 and 20 years for losses incurred subsequent to 1997. Our federal net operating losses will begin to expire this year, in 2008, and our California tax loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2012. Additionally, the future utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income is subject to annual limitations, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383, as a result of ownership changes that have occurred in prior years, which could prevent us from fully utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards. Our stock price has been very volatile and will likely continue to be volatile. The market prices of the stock of technology companies, particularly biotechnology companies, have been highly volatile. For the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007, the low and high sales prices for our common stock ranged from $4.31 to $18.20. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our low and high sales prices were $6.91 and $18.20, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, the last reported sale price of our common stock was $11.03. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be affected by market volatility, as well as by our own performance. We expect our stock price to be volatile in the near future. The following factors, among other risk factors, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • the results of the FDA’s review of the NDA that we submitted for milnacipran for the treatment of FM; • the results of any clinical trials for milnacipran; • development of our personalized medicine laboratory services and other product candidates; • our ability to integrate the Proprius business and its employees; • developments in our relationship with Forest Laboratories, including the termination of our agreement; 31. Table of Contents • developments in our relationship with Pierre Fabre, including the termination of our agreement; • our entering into, or failing to enter into, an agreement for the acquisition of any products, product candidates or companies, or an agreement with any corporate collaborator; • our available cash; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • developments in our patent or other proprietary rights; • fluctuations in our operating results; • litigation initiated by or against us; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation; and • economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis. The concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may result in the entrenchment of management, prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors and stockholders who hold at least 5% of our stock beneficially owned and controlled approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. If these officers, directors and principal stockholders act together, they will be able to help entrench management and to influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including a financing in which we sell more than 20% of our voting stock at a discount to the market price, the removal of any directors up for election, the election of the members of our board of directors, mergers, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, going private transactions and other fundamental transactions. This concentration of ownership could also depress our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our third amended and restated bylaws may delay, impede or prevent an acquisition or change in control of us. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management team. These provisions include, among others, a requirement that our board of directors be divided into three classes with directors serving three year terms and with only one class of directors being elected in any given year, a requirement that special meetings of our stockholders may only be called by the chairman of the board, our chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors and a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits, with some exceptions, stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Finally, our charter documents establish advanced notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Although we believe these provisions together provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. 32. Table of Contents We expect to continue incurring significant costs as a result of enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, have and we expect will continue to result in significant costs to us. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of internal control over financial reporting has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant financial resources and management time related to compliance activities. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors view of us. In connection with the completion of the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 by our independent public accountants, Ernst and Young LLP, we noted material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and the appropriate classification of such securities. We have implemented measures to remedy the deficiencies in the first quarter of 2008. We believe these new controls will adequately address these material weaknesses. We plan to continue to monitor the effectiveness of our controls and procedures on an ongoing basis and will take further action, as appropriate. 33. Table of Contents Risks related to our intellectual property We rely primarily on method of use patents to protect our proprietary technology for the development of milnacipran, and our ability to compete may decrease or be eliminated if we are not able to protect our proprietary technology. Our ability to compete may decrease or be eliminated if we are not able to protect our proprietary technology. The composition of matter patent for milnacipran (U.S. Patent 4,478,836) expired in June 2002. Accordingly, we rely on the patent for the method of synthesis of milnacipran (U.S. Patent 5,034,541), which expires on December 27, 2009 and was assigned to Pierre Fabre and licensed to us and on patents on the method of use of milnacipran to treat symptoms of FM (U.S. Patent 6,602,911, which we refer to as the ’911 patent), the method of use of milnacipran to treat pain (U.S. Patent 6,992,110) and the method of use of milnacipran to treat symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome (U.S. Patent 6,635,675) issued to us, to protect our proprietary technology with respect to the development of milnacipran. The method of use patent directly relevant to our current milnacipran product candidate is the ’911 patent; the other two method of use patents may have future applicability. We have also filed additional patent applications related to milnacipran and to the use of milnacipran for FM (and other related pain syndromes and disorders), although no patents have issued on these patent applications. Because there is no patent protection for the composition of matter of milnacipran, other companies may be able to sell milnacipran in competition with us and Forest Laboratories for indications for which we do not have use patent protection unless we and Forest Laboratories are able to obtain additional protection through milnacipran-related patents or additional use patents that may issue from our pending patent applications or other regulatory exclusivity. It may be more difficult to establish infringement of methods of synthesis, formulation or use patents as compared to a patent on a compound. If we or Forest Laboratories are not able to obtain and enforce these patents, a competitor could use milnacipran for a treatment or use not covered by any of our patents. In connection with our acquisition of Proprius, we acquired an issued patent (U.S. patent 6,921,667, which terminates in 2023) and several patents in prosecution with respect to the MTX Polyglutamates Test and a number of patents in prosecution on the Early RA Prediction Algorithm. Although we have one issued patent covering the MTX Polyglutamates Test we may not be able to secure any additional patent protection and the existing patent may not ensure exclusivity through the patent term. In addition, as part of our acquisition of Proprius we have acquired a family of pending U.S. and international patent applications directed to PRO-515 (the oral DMARD therapy for the treatment of RA). We have also acquired a patent family directed to PRO-406 (the topical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug [NSAID] therapy for the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis) including one issued patent (U.S. patent No. 7,138,394, which expires in 2023) and several pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. It is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain any claim with reasonable coverage for PRO-406 or PRO-515. The validity of a United States patent depends, in part, on the novelty of the invention it discloses. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by constant investment in new drug discovery and development, and this results in a steady stream of publications regarding the product of this investment, any of which would act to defeat the novelty of later-discovered inventions. Issued United States patents enjoy a presumption of validity that can only be overcome by clear and convincing evidence. However, patents are nonetheless subject to challenge and can be invalidated if a court determines, retrospectively, that despite the action of the Patent and Trademark Office in issuing the patent, the corresponding patent application did not meet the statutory requirements. If a competitor or other third party were to successfully challenge our patents, and claims in these patents are narrowed or invalidated, our ability to protect the related product from competition would be compromised. 34. Table of Contents We also expect to rely on the United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, for protection of milnacipran and our other future products. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments provide data exclusivity for new molecular entities, such as that in milnacipran. Once a drug containing a new molecule is approved by the FDA, the FDA cannot accept an abbreviated NDA for a generic drug containing that molecule for five years, although the FDA may accept and approve a drug containing the molecule pursuant to an NDA supported by independent clinical data. Amendments have been proposed that would narrow the scope of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity and permit generic drugs to compete with our drug. After the Hatch-Waxman exclusivity period expires, assuming our patents are valid, we still expect to rely on our method of use patents to protect our proprietary technology with respect to the development of milnacipran. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies are uncertain and may involve complex legal and factual questions. We may incur significant expense in protecting our intellectual property and defending or assessing claims with respect to intellectual property owned by others. Any patent or other infringement litigation by or against us could result in significant expense to us, including diversion of the resources of management. Others may file patent applications or obtain patents on similar technology or compounds that compete with milnacipran for the treatment of FM. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that will be allowed and issued in patent applications. Once patents have issued, we cannot predict how the claims will be construed or enforced. We may infringe on intellectual property rights of others without being aware of the infringement. If another party claims we are infringing their technology, we could have to defend an expensive and time consuming lawsuit, pay a large sum if we are found to be infringing, or be prohibited from selling or licensing our products unless we obtain a license or redesign our product, which may not be possible. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. Some of our current or former employees, consultants or scientific advisors, or current or prospective corporate collaborators, may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors or use our proprietary technology for their own benefit. Furthermore, enforcing a claim alleging the infringement of our trade secrets would be expensive and difficult to prove, making the outcome uncertain. Our competitors may also independently develop similar knowledge, methods and know-how or gain access to our proprietary information through some other means. Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining proprietary rights to our product and service candidates and technologies and their uses as well as successfully defending these rights against third party challenges. We will only be able to protect our product and service candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or effectively-protected trade secrets cover them. Our ability to obtain patent protection for our product and service candidates and technologies is uncertain due to a number of factors, including: • we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent applications or issued patents; • we may not have been the first to file patent applications for our product and service candidates or the technologies we rely upon; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; 35. Table of Contents • our disclosures in patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability; • any or all of our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • we may not seek or obtain patent protection in all countries that will eventually provide a significant business opportunity; • any patents issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • some of our technologies may not be patentable; • others may design around our patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside of the scope of our patents; or • others may identify prior art which could invalidate our patents. Even if we obtain patents covering our product and service candidates or technologies, we may still be barred from making, using and selling our product candidates or technologies because of the patent rights of others. Others may have filed and in the future are likely to file patent applications covering compounds, assays, genes, gene products or therapeutic or diagnostic products that are similar or identical to ours. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the area of the fields in which we are developing products and services. These could materially affect our ability to develop our product and service candidates or sell our products and services. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product and service candidates or technologies may infringe. These patent applications may have priority over patent applications filed by us. Disputes may arise regarding the ownership or inventorship of our inventions. It is difficult to determine how such disputes will be resolved. Others may challenge the validity of our patents. If our patents are found to be invalid we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the inventions claimed therein. Some of our research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information to which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be impaired. In addition, in-licensed technology is important to our business. We generally will not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of in-licensed technology. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. There is significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product and service candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If our drug development activities are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages. There are many patents relating to chemical compounds and the uses thereof. If our compounds are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages. A patentee could prevent us from making, using or selling the patented compounds. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent 36. Table of Contents issued to us, protect our trade secrets or determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. From time to time, we may hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. Either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, whether we win or lose. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against our company or our collaborators could lead to: • payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed such parties’ patent rights; • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products and product candidates; or • we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future products and product candidates. The patent applications of pharmaceutical and biotechnology and diagnostic companies involve highly complex legal and factual questions, which could negatively impact our patent position. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology and diagnostic companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The United States Patent and Trademark Office’s standards are uncertain and could change in the future. Consequently, the issuance and scope of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. United States patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and United States patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent office), which proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or processes. In addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the United States and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, we could lose our competitive advantage and competition we face would increase, reducing our potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. 37. Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 