Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks and uncertainties contained elsewhere in this report or in our other SEC filings, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock and notes convertible into our common stock in connection with the restructuring, and we cannot predict the price at which our common stock will trade in the future. On July 22, 2011, we completed our financial restructuring. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Liquidity and Capital Resources—The Restructuring” for additional information related to the restructuring. In connection with our restructuring, we issued a substantial number of shares of our common stock. We also issued $140.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Series A Notes and $100.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Series B Notes, which, together with additional Series A Notes and Series B Notes issuable as payment-in-kind interest or make whole premium, are convertible under certain conditions into approximately 5.9 million and 7.7 million shares of our common stock, respectively. As of February 20, 2012, $7.1 million in aggregate principal amount of Series B Notes have been converted into 0.5 million shares of our common stock. We cannot predict what the demand for our common stock will be in the future, how many shares of our common stock will be offered for sale or be sold in the future, or the price at which our common stock will trade in the future. Some of our investors may not be able to or may be unwilling to hold equity securities and may therefore seek to sell their shares of common stock or the shares of common stock they receive upon conversion of the Series A Notes and the Series B Notes (together with the Series A Notes, the “convertible notes”). There are no agreements or other restrictions that prevent the sale of a large number of our shares of our common stock. The issuance of the shares of common stock upon the conversion of the convertible notes has been registered with the SEC. As a consequence, those securities and the common stock into which they are convertible will, in general, be freely tradable. Sales of a large number of such securities or shares of common stock in the future could materially depress the trading price of such securities or our common stock. Future sales of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, including sales of our common stock in short sales transactions by purchasers of the convertible notes, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of the convertible notes and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance on conversion of the convertible notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that such issuances may have on the market price for our common stock. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and the value of the convertible notes and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. Further sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of our common stock for future sale, including sales of our common stock by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company or in connection with hedging and arbitrage activity that may develop with respect to our common stock, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or the value of the convertible notes. We are subject to restrictions on paying dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will be able to pay any dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund operations, debt service requirements and other corporate needs. In addition, our amended and restated credit agreement restricts the payment of dividends on our common stock other than in additional shares of our common stock. Liquidity Risks Our substantial indebtedness, lease obligations and pension funding obligations could adversely affect our financial flexibility and our competitive position. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1.3 billion in aggregate principal of outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. We also have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. As of December 31, 2011, our minimum rental expense under operating leases for 2012 was $48.3 million. As of December 31, 2011, our total operating lease obligations through 2025 totaled $137.3 million. We expect our funding obligations in 2012 under our single employer pension plans and the multiemployer pension funds will be approximately $175 million. Our substantial indebtedness, lease obligations and pension funding obligations could have other important consequences to you and significant effects on our business. 9 Table of Contents For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, leases and pension funding obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict us from taking advantage of business opportunities; • make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, lease obligations, and pension funding obligations; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, the indenture governing our Series B Notes contains, and the agreements evidencing or governing our existing or future indebtedness may contain, restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although covenants under the indenture governing the Series B Notes, our amended and restated credit agreement and other agreements limit our ability and the ability of our present and future subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, the terms of the indenture governing the Series B Notes, our amended and restated credit agreement and other agreements permit us to incur significant additional indebtedness. In addition, the indentures governing our convertible notes do not prohibit us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness as defined therein. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness or such other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness described above, including our possible inability to service our debt will increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to affect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the indentures governing the convertible notes, may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations under our existing and future indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness would have the right, following any applicable cure period, to cause the entire principal amount thereof to become immediately due and payable. If our outstanding indebtedness was accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed. 10 Table of Contents We face significant liquidity challenges in the near term which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to continue as a going concern over the next twelve months is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • our operating results, pricing and shipping volumes must continue to improve at a rate significantly better than what we have achieved in our recent financial results; • we must continue to comply with covenants and other terms of our credit facilities so as to have access to the borrowings available to us under such credit facilities or otherwise obtain lender approval to modify those covenants; • our anticipated cost savings under our labor agreements, including wage reductions and savings due to work rule changes, must continue; • we must complete real estate sale transactions as anticipated; • we must continue to defer purchases of replacement revenue equipment or secure suitable lease financing arrangements for such replacement revenue equipment; • we must continue to implement and realize substantial cost savings measures to match our costs with business levels and to continue to become more efficient; • we must continue to manage receipts and disbursements, including amounts and timing, focusing on reducing days sales outstanding for trade receivables and managing days outstanding for trade payables; and • we must be able to generate operating cash flows that are sufficient to provide for additional cash requirements for pension contributions to single-employer and multiemployer pension plans, cash interest on debt and for capital expenditures or additional lease payments for new revenue equipment. There can be no assurance that management will be successful or that such plans will be achieved. We expect to continue to monitor our liquidity, work to alleviate these uncertainties and address our cash needs through a combination of one or more of the following actions: • we will continue to aggressively seek additional and return business from customers; • we will continue to attempt to reduce our escrow deposits and letter of credit collateral requirements related to our self- insurance programs; • if appropriate, we may sell additional equity or pursue other capital market transactions; and • we may consider selling additional assets or business lines, which would require lenders’ consent in certain cases. A failure to satisfy our short term liquidity needs would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course. Restrictive covenants in the documents governing our existing and future indebtedness may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. The documents governing our existing indebtedness contain and the documents governing any of our future indebtedness will likely contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. The documents governing our existing indebtedness, among other things, limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create or incur liens; • enter into sale/leaseback transactions; • merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; • make investments and acquire assets; and • make certain payments on indebtedness. 11 Table of Contents The restrictions could adversely affect our ability to: • finance our operations; • make needed capital expenditures; • make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; • withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; • engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. Our ability to obtain future financing or to sell assets could be adversely affected because a very large majority of our assets have been secured as collateral for the benefit of the holders of our indebtedness. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our existing and future indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. The documents governing our indebtedness contain financial covenants, covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. During the next twelve months, the thresholds required under the financial covenants in our credit facilities are subject to significant step-ups. Our current management forecast indicates that our operating results are not expected to improve at a rate sufficient for us to meet these stepped-up minimum covenant thresholds beginning in the second quarter of 2012. In addition, we have a covenant compliance risk prior to the second quarter of 2012. As a result, our operating results would have to improve beyond our current expectations for us to remain in compliance with these more stringent financial covenants. Our operating results are impacted by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, we cannot provide any assurances that this will be the case. In the event that we fail to meet these financial covenants, we will need to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders or otherwise we will be in default under our credit facilities, which would enable lenders thereunder to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding and exercise remedies with respect to collateral. In the event that our lenders under our credit facilities demand payment, we will not have sufficient cash and cash flows from operations to repay such indebtedness. In addition, a default under our credit facilities or the lenders exercising their remedies thereunder would trigger cross-default provisions in our other indebtedness and certain other operating agreements. Our ability to amend our credit facilities or otherwise obtain waivers from our lenders depends on matters that are outside of our control and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in that regard. In addition, any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Business Risks We are a holding company and we are dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the new term loans, substantially depends upon our subsidiaries’ cash flow and payments of funds to us by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any advances, distributions or other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, debt instruments, tax considerations and legal restrictions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries as a result of these restrictions, we may not be able to pay principal of, or interest on, the new term loans when due, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources. Our recurring net losses from continuing operations and operating cash flow deficits and our ability to comply with certain debt covenants through 2012 raise significant uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, which implies that we will continue to meet our obligations and continue our operations for at least the next 12 months. However, the Company has experienced recurring net losses from continuing operations and operating cash flow deficits. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on many factors, including among others, improvements in our operating results necessary to comply with our existing debt covenant requirements, or modify our existing debt covenant requirements and achieve the operating results necessary to comply with the modified covenants. These conditions raise significant uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of the foregoing uncertainties We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, many of which are largely out of our control. These factors include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles and changes in their business practices, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail and 12 Table of Contents manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Due to our high fixed-cost structure, in the short-term it is difficult for us to adjust expenses proportionally with fluctuations in volume levels. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The factors contributing to these risks and costs include weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, interest rates, fuel prices and taxes, fuel surcharge collection, impact on liquidity from the lag between higher payments for fuel and the collection of higher fuel surcharges in a rising fuel cost environment, terrorist attacks, license and registration fees, insurance premiums and self-insurance levels, difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified drivers, the risk of outbreak of epidemical illnesses, the risk of widespread disruption of our technology systems, and increasing equipment and operational costs. Our results of operations may also be affected by seasonal factors. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Numerous competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include the following: • We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which have a lower cost structure, more equipment and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages. • Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain or grow our business. • Our customers may negotiate rates or contracts that minimize or eliminate our ability to offset fuel price increases through a fuel surcharge on our customers. • Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. • Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors. • The trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. • Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. • Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices. If our relationship with our employees were to deteriorate, we may be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and place us at a disadvantage relative to non-union competitors. Virtually all of our operating subsidiaries have employees who are represented by the Teamsters. These employees represent approximately 76% of our workforce at December 31, 2011. Each of our YRC Freight, New Penn, and Holland subsidiaries employ most of their unionized employees under the terms of a common national master freight agreement with the IBT, as supplemented by additional regional supplements and local agreements, which will expire on March 31, 2015. The IBT also represents a number of employees at Reddaway, and Reimer under more localized agreements, which have wages, benefit contributions and other terms and conditions that better fit the cost structure and operating models of these business units. Certain of our subsidiaries are regularly subject to grievances, arbitration proceedings and other claims concerning alleged past and current non-compliance with applicable labor law and collective bargaining agreements. Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries can predict the outcome of any of the matters discussed above. These matters, if resolved in a manner unfavorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our pension expense and funding obligations could increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future funding obligations for our U.S. single-employer defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service depend upon their funded status, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels and actuarial experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. The Company’s subsidiaries began making contributions to most of the multi-employer pension funds (“the funds”) for the month beginning June 1, 2011 at the rate of 25% of the contribution rate in effect on July 1, 2009. However, legislative changes to current law or other satisfactory action or arrangements are required to enable certain of the funds (based on their funded status) to accept contributions at a reduced rate. Absent such legislative changes or other satisfactory action, a fund that cannot allow the Company’s subsidiaries to begin to make contributions at a reduced rate to the fund may elect to either (i) apply the amount of the contributions toward paying down previously deferred contributions under our Contribution Deferral Agreement, (ii) have the amount of the contributions placed in escrow until such time when the fund is able to accept re-entry at the reduced rate, or (iii) if options (i) or (ii) are not available under applicable law or fund documentation, agree on other terms acceptable to the Company’s subsidiaries and the applicable fund. If the funding of the funds does not reach certain goals (including those required not to enter endangered or critical status or those required by a fund’s funding improvement or rehabilitation plan), our pension expenses and required cash contributions could further increase upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in investment returns that are not offset by contributions could also increase our obligations under such plans. The Pension Protection Act provides that certain plans with a funded percentage of less than 65%, or that fail other tests, will be deemed to be in critical status. Plans in critical status must create a rehabilitation plan to exit critical status within periods that the Pension Protection Act prescribes. We believe that based on information obtained from public filings and from plan administrators and trustees, many of the multi-employer pension funds, including The Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan and Road Carriers Local 707 Pension Fund, are in critical status. If the funding of the multi-employer pension plans does not reach certain goals (including those required not to enter endangered or critical status or those required by a plans funding improvement or rehabilitation plan), our pension expenses could further increase upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements. We believe that based on information obtained from public filings and from plan administrators and trustees, our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination from all of the multi-employer pension plans would be an estimated $9 billion on a pre-tax basis. If the Company were subject to withdrawal liability with respect to a plan, ERISA provides that a withdrawing employer can pay the obligation in a lump sum or over time based upon an annual payment that is the product of the highest contribution rate to the relevant plan multiplied by the average of the three highest consecutive years measured in contribution base units, which, in some cases, could be up to 20 years. Even so, our applicable subsidiaries have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to payment of material withdrawal obligations, however we cannot provide any assurance that such obligations will not arise in the future which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing self-insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels. We currently self-insure for a majority of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and workers’ compensation. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may have to post additional letters of credit to state workers’ compensation authorities or insurers to support our insurance policies, which may adversely affect our liquidity. If we lose our ability to self insure, our insurance costs could materially increase, and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. Our business is capital intensive. Our capital expenditures focus primarily on revenue equipment replacement, land and structures and investments in information technology. In light of our recent operating results and liquidity needs, we have deferred capital expenditures and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future, including the next twelve months. As a result, the average age of our fleet has increased and we will need to update our fleet periodically. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our capital requirements, we may have to limit our growth, utilize our existing capital, or enter into additional financing arrangements, including leasing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment (including tractors and trailers) for longer periods resulting in increased maintenance costs, any of which could reduce our income. If our cash from operations and existing financing arrangements are not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we may not be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our credit facilities contain provisions that limit our level of capital expenditures. 14 Table of Contents We operate in an industry subject to extensive government regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. The U.S. Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security and various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations that the Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities impose, including regulations relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one time period, security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liabilities for violations of, existing or future laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things, the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable environmental laws or regulations, it could significantly increase our cost of doing business. Under specific environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present terminals and at third-party waste disposal sites. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. In addition, as climate change initiatives become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments and our customers are beginning to promulgate solutions for these issues. This increased focus on greenhouse gas emission reductions and corporate environmental sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements, as well as increased indirect costs or loss of revenue resulting from, among other things, our customers incurring additional compliance costs that affect our costs and revenues. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we haven’t complied with their sustainability requirements. These costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ability of our board of directors and new management team to lead our company will be critical to our ability to succeed, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if they are unsuccessful. On July 22, 2011, pursuant to the terms of the restructuring, our then existing board of directors resigned and was replaced by a new board of directors and our current chief executive officer began employment. In addition, our current chief financial officer took office on August 9, 2011, and other senior management has taken office since that date. It is important to our success that our new board of directors quickly understands our industry and that our board of directors and management team understand the challenges and opportunities facing our company. If they are unable to do so, and as a result are unable to provide effective guidance and leadership, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies will be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot assure you that these measures will not significantly increase our costs and reduce our operating margins and income. 15 Table of Contents The outcome of legal proceedings and IRS audits to which the Company and its subsidiaries are a party could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are a party to various legal proceedings, including claims related to personal injury, property damage, cargo loss, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liability, class actions and antitrust violations. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. The IRS may issue adverse tax determinations in connection with its audit of our prior year tax returns. See the Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. We may incur significant expenses defending these legal proceedings and IRS audits. In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements or taxes, or lose the benefits under existing agreements, in connection with these proceedings and audits, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. We may not obtain further benefits and cost savings from operational changes and performance improvement initiatives. In response to our business environment, we initiated operational changes and process improvements to reduce costs and improve financial performance. The changes and initiatives include integrating our Yellow Transportation and Roadway networks in 2009, reorganizing our management, reducing overhead costs, closing redundant facilities, eliminating unnecessary activities and implementing changes of operations under our labor agreements. There is no assurance that these changes and improvements will be successful or that we will not have to initiate additional changes and improvements in order to achieve the projected benefits and cost savings. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our projections. From time to time, we release projections and similar guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management’s estimates as of the date of release. These projections, which are forward-looking statements, are prepared by our management and are qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the release. Our projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. Projections are necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions and estimates relating to the projections furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our projections are only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the projections and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is projected. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our projections in making investment decisions in respect of our securities. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy, the failure of some or all of the assumptions and estimates relating to the projections furnished by us or the occurrence of any of the adverse events or circumstances described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC could result in the actual operating results being different from the projections, and such differences may be adverse and material. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 