Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks and uncertainties contained elsewhere in this report or in our other SEC filings, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restructuring and Bankruptcy Risks We may not be successful in completing the proposed Restructuring or we may be required to implement the Restructuring under the supervision of a bankruptcy court. Unless and until definitive written agreements with respect to the Restructuring have been executed and delivered, neither we nor any of the other Consenting Parties will be under any legal obligation of any kind whatsoever with respect to the Restructuring. The Restructuring affects significant constituents who have not participated in the negotiation of the Term Sheet and who have not agreed to the Term Sheet, and as a result, certain of the terms set forth therein may change. Significant third-party approvals are required to support and complete the Restructuring on an out-of-court basis, including by lenders under the Credit Agreement and ABS Facility, TNFINC, the multi-employer pension funds and the holders of our current convertible notes. The completion of any out-of-court restructuring may also require an amendment to our certificate of incorporation that would need to be approved by our stockholders and 15 Table of Contents any restructuring may require legislative changes to current law or other satisfactory action or arrangements to enable or facilitate approval by certain of the pension funds. The Restructuring is also subject to significant milestone completion conditions, including the Pension Fund Condition, Documentation Condition and the Closing Condition. The Pension Fund Condition has not been satisfied. As a result, a Milestone Failure has occurred and the Required Lenders have the right, but not the obligation, to declare an event of default under the Credit Agreement. We cannot provide any assurance that the Required Lenders will not declare an event of default under the Credit Agreement. If the Required Lenders declare an event of default under the Credit Agreement, we anticipate that we would seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. We cannot provide you with any assurances that we will reach agreement on the definitive terms of any restructuring. We cannot provide you with any assurances that the terms of any definitive agreements regarding a restructuring will not contain terms substantially and materially different that those described in this report. The Restructuring is also subject to the lack of unexpected or adverse litigation results. We cannot provide you with any assurances that any restructuring can be completed out-of-court or whether we will be required to implement the Restructuring under the supervision of a bankruptcy court, in which event, we cannot provide you with any assurances that the terms of any such restructuring will not be substantially and materially different from those described in this report or that an effort to implement an in-court restructuring would be successful. We may file for bankruptcy protection or an involuntary petition for bankruptcy may be filed against us. We have entered into recent amendments to our Credit Agreement, our ABS Facility, our Contribution Deferral Agreement and term sheet to our modified NMFA that require that certain conditions and cross-conditions regarding our proposed restructuring pursuant to the terms and conditions of the AIP be met. The Pension Fund Condition has not been satisfied. As a result, a Milestone Failure has occurred and the Required Lenders have the right, but not the obligation, to declare an event of default under the Credit Agreement. We cannot provide any assurance that the Required Lenders will not declare an event of default under the Credit Agreement. If the Required Lenders declare an event of default under the Credit Agreement, we anticipate that we would seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. If the Documentation Condition or the Closing Condition is not satisfied by the applicable required date, then (i) the deferral of interest and fees under the Credit Agreement will end on the fifth day (or if the fifth day is not a business day, the immediately following business day) following such failure and (ii) the Required Lenders may declare an event of default under the Credit Agreement. We cannot provide any assurance that such conditions will be met or otherwise extended. We cannot provide any assurance that in such an event, our indebtedness, including all deferred amounts, will not be accelerated by the Lenders. The recent amendments to our ABS Facility, Contribution Deferral Agreement and term sheet to our modified NMFA contain the Documentation Condition and Closing Condition consistent with the Credit Agreement Amendment. There are significant conditions in such amendments to continue (i) the deferral of amounts under the ABS Facility and the Contribution Deferral Agreement and (ii) the concessions in the modified NMFA. We do not expect that we will have sufficient liquidity to pay deferred amounts under the Credit Agreement and Contribution Deferral Agreement, make contributions to multi-employer pension funds in amounts greater than set forth in the modified NMFA or lose wage, benefit and work rule concessions set forth in the NMFA in 2011 if such conditions are not met or extended and such deferral, contributions and concessions do not continue. In the event any of the conditions described above are not satisfied, waived or amended under any of the Credit Agreement, the ABS Facility, the Contribution Deferral Agreement or the modified NMFA, we would likely be required to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. If we reorganize under Chapter 11 or liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, it is expected that our common stockholders would not recover any value. If we file for bankruptcy protection, our business and operations will be subject to certain risks. A bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code would subject our business and operations to various risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • our customers would likely cease or substantially reduce their use of our services to avoid the possibility of stranded freight in our network in the event we cease to operate or substantially reduce our operations; • our suppliers may attempt to cancel our contracts or restrict ordinary credit terms, require financial assurances of performance or refrain entirely from providing goods or services to us; • our insurance companies and parties who govern or oversee our self insurance programs may attempt to cancel or adversely modify such relationships or fail to renew insurance policies or self insurance arrangements or demand additional collateral or increase premiums or payments; • our employees may become distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other career opportunities; 16 Table of Contents • the coordination of a bankruptcy filing and operating under protection of the bankruptcy court would involve significant costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other professional advisors; • we may have difficulty continuing to obtain and maintain contracts necessary to continue our operations and at affordable rates with competitive terms; • we may have difficulty maintaining existing and building new relationships; • transactions outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to the prior approval of the bankruptcy court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities; • we may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to motions made in the bankruptcy proceedings; • we may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of a Chapter 11 reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; • there can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations; • there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, and other parties in interest; • there can be no assurance that we may not be required to convert a Chapter 11 reorganization into a Chapter 7 liquidation; and • the value of our common stock could be affected as a result of a bankruptcy filing. As with any judicial proceeding, a Chapter 11 proceeding (even if there is a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan of reorganization) involves the potential for significant delays in reaching a final resolution. In a Chapter 11 proceeding, there are risks of delay with the confirmation of the plan of reorganization and there are risks of objections from certain stakeholders, including any creditors that vote to reject the plan, that could further delay the process and potentially cause a plan of reorganization to be rejected by the court. Any material delay in the confirmation of a Chapter 11 proceeding would compound the risks described above and add substantial expense and uncertainty to the process. If we reorganize under Chapter 11 or liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, it is expected that our common stockholders would not recover any value. If we liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, we expect our operations would cease. We expect to issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in connection with the Restructuring, and we cannot predict the price at which our common stock will trade following the Restructuring. In the event a Restructuring as contemplated by the Term Sheet is completed, we expect to issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock to certain holders of our debt obligations. We anticipate that our current stockholders will be very substantially diluted. We cannot predict what the demand for our common stock will be following the Restructuring, how many shares of our common stock will be offered for sale or be sold following the Restructuring or the price at which our common stock will trade following the Restructuring. Some of the new holders of our common stock may be investors that cannot or are unwilling to hold equity securities and may therefore seek to sell the common stock they receive in the Restructuring. Sales of a large number of shares of common stock after the Restructuring could materially depress the trading price of our common stock. Potential limitations on usage of tax attributes such as net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards that would otherwise reduce future cash taxes may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to recognize financial statement benefit for those attributes. The Restructuring could result in an “ownership change” within the meaning of the U.S. federal and state income tax laws addressing the use of such tax attributes as net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. As a result of such an ownership change, there would be specific limitations on our ability to use these tax attributes from periods prior to the Restructuring. Such limitations could result in an increase in our future U.S. federal and state income tax liability or cause these tax attributes to expire unused. The inability to fully utilize these tax attributes could adversely affect our future cash flow. Those limitations could also increase the overall valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including these attributes, that has been recorded at December 31, 2010. Liquidity Risks Our substantial leverage, debt service and other obligations could adversely affect our financial condition. We have substantial debt and, as a result, significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.1 billion of secured indebtedness outstanding. We are deferring payment of (i) interest and fees to our lenders under the Credit Agreement, (ii) interest and facility fees to purchasers of our accounts receivable pursuant to the ABS Facility, and (iii) interest and principal to the multi-employer pension funds pursuant to the Contribution Deferral Agreement, and we are receiving the benefit of wage reductions and other concessions from the modified NMFA including continued temporary cessation of pension contributions to the 17 Table of Contents multi-employer pension funds. As of December 31, 2010, the amounts deferred under the Credit Agreement, the ABS Facility and the Contribution Deferral Agreement were approximately $128.1 million, $17.7 million and $55.5 million respectively. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of benefit of the wage reductions and other concessions realized under the modified NMFA (including prior modifications to the NMFA) was approximately $1 billion. In the event the conditions and cross-conditions under the Credit Agreement, the ABS Facility, the Contribution Deferral Agreement and the modified NMFA are not satisfied, and the Restructuring is not completed, the amounts deferred and the benefits realized under such agreements could become payable or reimbursable, as applicable. If we do not complete the Restructuring, it is very unlikely we will be able to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal of, interest on and other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness and other obligations when due. In such an event, we would likely be required to reorganize under Chapter 11 or liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Our substantial level of debt, debt service obligations and restrictions under our credit facilities could also have additional important effects on our financial condition. These effects may include: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns, competition and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate requirements because we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service debt obligations; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt obligations and to satisfy our other obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and the completion of the proposed Restructuring. If we are unable to service our debt, fund our business, or repay and reimburse the amounts deferred and the benefits realized under the Credit Agreement, the ABS Facility, the Contribution Deferral Agreement or the modified NMFA, we would likely be required to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code. If we reorganize under Chapter 11 or liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, it is expected that our common stockholders would not recover any value. We face significant liquidity challenges in the near term which could adversely affect our financial condition. In light of our recent operating results, we have satisfied our short term liquidity needs through a combination of borrowings under our credit facilities, retained proceeds from asset sales, sale/leaseback financing transactions, issuances of our common stock and 6% Notes and an income tax refund from the IRS. In an effort to further manage liquidity, we have also instituted the deferral of principal and interest payments under the Contribution Deferral Agreement, certain interest and fees due under our Credit Facility and ABS Facility and we have received the benefit of wage reductions and other concessions from the modified NMFA (including prior modifications to the NMFA) including continued temporary cessation of pension contributions to multi-employer pension funds. As described above, on February 28, 2011, we and the other Consenting Parties reached a non-binding agreement in principle in the form of a term sheet entitled “Summary of Principal Terms of Proposed Restructuring” setting forth the material terms of our potential Restructuring. Notwithstanding our reaching the AIP, we anticipate that we will continue to face risks and uncertainties regarding our short and medium-term liquidity. To continue to have sufficient liquidity to meet our cash flow requirements prior to the completion of the Restructuring and through the remainder of 2011: • we must implement our proposed Restructuring within the milestone conditions as currently set forth in the AIP; • our operating results must continue to stabilize or recover quarter-over-quarter and shipping volumes and pricing must continue to stabilize or recover quarter-over-quarter; • we must continue to have access to our credit facilities; • we must continue to defer payment of: • interest and fees to our lenders under the Credit Agreement • interest and facility fees to purchasers of our accounts receivable pursuant to the ABS Facility • interest and principal to our pension funds pursuant to the Contribution Deferral Agreement, in each case through the completion of the Restructuring and thereafter pursuant to the final terms of the Restructuring, as applicable; • the cost savings under our labor agreements, including wage reductions, temporary cessation of multi-employer pension fund contributions and savings due to work rule changes, must continue; 18 Table of Contents • the multi-employer pension funds must allow the company’s subsidiaries to re-enter the plans at the reduced contribution rate pursuant to the terms of the Agreement for the Restructuring of the YRC Worldwide, Inc. Operating Companies and related Term Sheet/Proposal, dated as of September 24, 2010 (as amended from time to time, the “IBT Agreement”); • we must complete real estate sale transactions currently under contract as anticipated; and • we must continue to implement and realize substantial cost savings measures to match our costs with business levels and to continue to become more efficient. We expect to continue to monitor our liquidity carefully, work to reduce this uncertainty and address our cash needs through a combination of one or more of the following actions: • we continue to, and expect to implement further cost actions and efficiency improvements; • we will continue to aggressively seek additional and return business from customers; • if appropriate, we may sell additional equity or pursue other capital market transactions; • we may consider selling non-strategic assets or business lines; and • we expect to carefully manage receipts and disbursements, including amounts and timing, focusing on reducing days sales outstanding and managing days payables outstanding. A failure to satisfy our short term liquidity needs would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course. We expect that we would be required to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code in such an event. Our significant declines in operations, cash flows, and liquidity and need to generate adequate positive cash flow from operations or obtain adequate funding to fund our business raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, which implies that we will continue to meet our obligations and continue our operations for at least the next 12 months. However, our significant declines in operations, cash flows, and liquidity raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Realization values may be substantially different from carrying values as shown, and our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability or classification of recorded asset amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might be necessary as a result of this uncertainty. The price of our common stock is volatile and if its price does not meet NASDAQ’s continued listing rules, our common stock could be delisted which could effect our ability to raise additional capital. The NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements provide, among other requirements, that the minimum trading price of our common stock not fall below $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30 day trading period. Upon receipt from the NASDAQ of notice of non-compliance, we would have a period of 180 days to regain compliance with this requirement. Upon consummation of the proposed Restructuring, the price per share of our common stock may fall below the $1.00 per share minimum trading price. We may seek and obtain stockholder approval to implement a reverse stock split of our common stock, and we may be able to regain compliance with the NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in receiving such stockholder approval within the requisite time period following completion of the proposed Restructuring, or at all. Delisting of our common stock would have an adverse effect on the market liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock could become more volatile. Further, delisting also could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Business Risks We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, many of which are largely out of our control. These factors include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles and changes in their business practices, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Due to our high fixed-cost structure, in the short-term it is difficult for us to adjust expenses proportionally with fluctuations in volume levels. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The factors contributing to these risks and costs include weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, interest rates, fuel prices and taxes, fuel surcharge collection, impact on liquidity from the lag between higher payments for fuel and the collection of higher fuel surcharges in a rising fuel cost environment, terrorist attacks, license and registration fees, insurance premiums and self-insurance levels, difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified drivers, the risk of outbreak of epidemical illnesses, the risk of widespread disruption of our technology systems, and increasing equipment and operational costs. Our results of operations may also be affected by seasonal factors. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Numerous competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include the following: • We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which have a lower cost structure, more equipment and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages. • Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain or grow our business. • Our customers may negotiate rates or contracts that minimize or eliminate our ability to offset fuel price increases through a fuel surcharge on our customers. • Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. • Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors. • The trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. • Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. • Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices. If our relationship with our employees were to deteriorate, we may be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and place us at a disadvantage relative to non-union competitors. Virtually all of our operating subsidiaries have employees who are represented by the Teamsters. These employees represent approximately 75% of our workforce. Each of our YRC, New Penn, and Holland subsidiaries employ most of their unionized employees under the terms of a common national master freight agreement with the Teamsters, as supplemented by additional regional supplements and local agreements. The Teamsters ratified a five-year agreement that took effect on April 1, 2008, and will expire on March 31, 2015, as modified by the IBT Agreement. The Teamsters also represent a number of employees at Reddaway, and Reimer under more localized agreements, which have wages, benefit contributions and other terms and conditions that better fit the cost structure and operating models of these business units. Certain of our subsidiaries are regularly subject to grievances, arbitration proceedings and other claims concerning alleged past and current non-compliance with applicable labor law and collective bargaining agreements. 20 Table of Contents Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries can predict the outcome of any of the matters discussed above. These matters, if resolved in a manner unfavorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our pension expense and funding obligations could increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future funding obligations for our U.S. single-employer defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service depend upon their funded status, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels and actuarial experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. Pursuant to the terms of the IBT Agreement, the ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to begin making contributions to the multi-employer pension funds (“the Funds”) on June 1, 2011 at the rate of 25% of the contribution rate in effect on July 1, 2009 is subject to the approval of the Funds. Any restructuring may require legislative changes to current law or other satisfactory action or arrangements to enable or facilitate approval by certain of the Funds (based on their funded status) to accept contributions at a reduced rate. If a Fund has not allowed the Company’s subsidiaries to begin to make contributions to the Fund by June 1, 2011, the IBT Agreement provides that the Fund may elect to either (i) apply the amount of the contributions to previously deferred contributions under our Contribution Deferral Agreement or (ii) have the amount of the contributions placed in escrow until the Fund approves the Company’s subsidiaries re-entry into the Funds at the reduced rate. If the funding of the Funds does not reach certain goals (including those required not to enter endangered or critical status or those required by a Fund’s funding improvement or rehabilitation plan), our pension expenses and required cash contributions could further increase upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in investment returns that are not offset by contributions could also increase our obligations under such plans. The Pension Protection Act provides that certain plans with a funded percentage of less than 65%, or that fail other tests, will be deemed to be in critical status. Plans in critical status must create a rehabilitation plan to exit critical status within periods that the Pension Protection Act prescribes. We believe that based on information obtained from public filings and from plan administrators and trustees, many of the multi-employer pension plans, including The Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan, are in critical status. We believe that based on information obtained from public filings and from plan administrators and trustees, our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination from all of the multi-employer pension plans would be an estimated $8 billion on a pre-tax basis before taking into consideration the recent market recovery. If the Company were subject to withdrawal liability with respect to a plan, ERISA provides that a withdrawing employer can pay the obligation in a lump sum or over time based upon an annual payment that is the product of the highest contribution rate to the relevant plan multiplied by the average of the three highest consecutive years measured in contribution base units, which, in some cases, could be up to 20 years. Even so, our applicable subsidiaries have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to payment of material withdrawal obligations, however we cannot provide any assurance that such obligations will not arise in the future which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing self-insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels. We currently self-insure for a majority of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and workers’ compensation. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may have to post additional letters of credit to state workers’ compensation authorities or insurers to support our insurance policies. If we lose our ability to self insure, our insurance costs could materially increase, and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. Our business is capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our capital requirements, we may have to limit our growth, utilize our existing capital, or enter into additional financing arrangements, including leasing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment (including tractors and trailers) for longer periods resulting in increased maintenance costs, any of which could reduce our income. If our cash from operations and existing financing arrangements are not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we may not be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our credit facilities contain provisions that limit our level of capital expenditures. 21 Table of Contents We operate in an industry subject to extensive government regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. The U.S. Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security and various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations that the Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities impose, including regulations relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one time period, security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liabilities for violations of, existing or future laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things, the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable environmental laws or regulations, it could significantly increase our cost of doing business. Under specific environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present terminals and at third-party waste disposal sites. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. In addition, as climate change initiatives become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments and our customers are beginning to promulgate solutions for these issues. This increased focus on greenhouse gas emission reductions and corporate environmental sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements, as well as increased indirect costs or loss of revenue resulting from, among other things, our customers incurring additional compliance costs that affect our costs and revenues. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we haven’t complied with their sustainability requirements. These costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management team is an important part of our business and loss of key personnel could impair our success. We benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and key personnel and depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. Our CEO has announced his intention to retire upon successful completion of our Restructuring. The company has announced the transition of the CFO responsibilities from our current CFO to an interim CFO effective March 31, 2011. The loss of senior management or key personnel and any difficulty in recruiting and retaining appropriately qualified replacements, including appropriately qualified replacements for our CEO & interim CFO, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies will be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot assure you that these measures will not significantly increase our costs and reduce our operating margins and income. The outcome of legal proceedings and IRS audits to which the Company and its subsidiaries are a party could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are a party to various legal proceedings, including claims related to personal injury, property damage, cargo loss, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liability, class actions and antitrust violations. See Note 16 “Commitments, Contingencies and Uncertainties” to our consolidated financial statements. The IRS may issue adverse tax determinations in connection with its audit of our prior year tax returns or the returns of a consolidated group that we acquired in 2005. See Note 12 “Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements. We may incur significant expenses defending these legal proceedings and IRS audits. In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards, settlements or taxes, or lose the benefits under existing agreements, in connection with these proceedings and audits, which could have a 22 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The Restructuring is also subject to the lack of unexpected or adverse litigation results. We may not obtain further benefits and cost savings from operational changes and performance improvement initiatives. In response to our business environment, we initiated operational changes and process improvements to reduce costs and improve financial performance. The changes and initiatives included integrating our Yellow Transportation and Roadway networks, reorganizing our management, reducing overhead costs, closing redundant offices and eliminating unnecessary activities. There is no assurance that these changes and improvements will be successful or that we will not have to initiate additional changes and improvements in order to achieve the projected benefits and cost savings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 