Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report or in our other SEC filings, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Liquidity RisksOur substantial indebtedness and cash interest payment obligations, lease obligations and pension funding obligations could adversely affect our financial flexibility and our competitive position. As of December 31, 2013, we had $1,363.4 million in aggregate principal of outstanding indebtedness. Although our 2014 Financing Transactions reduced our outstanding indebtedness and extended the maturities for a substantial portion of our debt to 2019, we remain substantially levered. Refer to the "2014 Financing Transactions" footnote to our consolidated financial statements for more details. We also have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. As of December 31, 2013, our expected minimum cash payments under our operating leases for 2014 are $56.1 million and our operating lease obligations totaled $166.6 million, which are primarily payable through 2019. We currently plan to procure a portion of our new revenue equipment using operating leases in 2014 and beyond in the same manner. We expect our funding obligations in 2014 under our single-employer pension plans and the multi-employer pension funds will be approximately $168.6 million. Despite the extended maturities and substantial interest savings resulting from the new facility, our substantial indebtedness, lease obligations and pension funding obligations could continue to have a significant impact on our business. For example, it could:•increase our vulnerability to adverse changes or sustained slow growth in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, leases and pension funding obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •restrict us from taking advantage of business opportunities; •make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations and covenants in our credit facilities; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, lease obligations, and pension funding obligations; and •limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, the failure to comply with our financial covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.Our ability to fund working capital needs and capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash in the future, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We believe that our results of operations will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and meet our covenants for the foreseeable future, including the next twelve months.Our ability to satisfy our liquidity needs beyond 2014 is dependent on a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include: •we must achieve improvements in our operating results in our YRC Freight operating segment, which rely upon pricing and shipping volumes and network efficiencies;•we must continue to comply with covenants and other terms of our credit facilities;•we must continue to implement and realize cost saving measures to match our costs with business levels in a manner that does not harm operations and our productivity and efficiency initiatives must be successful; and11Table of Contents•we must be able to generate operating cash flows that are sufficient to meet cash requirements for pension contributions to our single and multi employer pension funds, cash interest and principal payments on our funded debt, payments on our equipment leases, and for capital expenditures or additional lease payments for new revenue equipment.A failure to meet our liquidity needs could materially and adversely affect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.We incurred net losses in each of fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011. We may not obtain the projected benefits and cost savings from productivity and efficiency initiatives. If we incur future net losses we may need additional capital to meet our future cash requirements and execute our business strategy.Our business experienced net losses in each of fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011. Contributing factors to our net losses in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 were the challenges facing transportation services generally as a result of the prolonged slow economic recovery, competitive pressures in the LTL industry stemming from excess capacity that resulted in lower profit margins, interest expense and financing costs, and our operating cost structure. In each of 2009, 2011 and 2014, we implemented financial restructurings to improve our balance sheet and to provide additional operating liquidity. Since our restructuring in 2011, our senior management team and board of directors have put strategies in place that are focused on driving productivity and efficiency improvements. These efforts have been concentrated on improving pricing and shipping volumes as well as customer mix, redeploying shared services and, in turn, driving more autonomy, responsibility and accountability to our operating companies, streamlining operations and our transportation network, and divesting non-core assets. There is no assurance that these changes and improvements will be successful, that their implementation will have a positive impact on our operating results or that we will not have to initiate additional changes and improvements in order to achieve the projected benefits and cost savings. For example, our operating results for the second and quarters of 2013 were adversely affected by driver shortages and challenges in implementing our network optimization. If we incur future net losses, we may experience liquidity challenges and we may need to raise additional capital to meet our future cash requirements and to execute our business strategy.Restrictive covenants in the documents governing our existing and future indebtedness may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies.The documents governing our existing indebtedness contain, and the documents governing any future indebtedness will likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. The documents governing our existing indebtedness, among other things, limit our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; •make certain restricted payments or investments; •enter into agreements that restrict distributions from restricted subsidiaries; •sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •create or incur liens; •enter into sale/leaseback transactions; •merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; and•make investments and acquire assets.The restrictions could adversely affect our ability to: •finance our operations; •make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; •withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; •engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and •plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.Our ability to obtain future financing or to sell assets could be adversely affected because substantially all of our assets have been secured as collateral for the benefit of the holders of our indebtedness.Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our existing and future indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.12Table of ContentsThe documents governing our indebtedness contain financial covenants, affirmative covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. During the next twelve months, the thresholds required under the financial covenants in our credit facilities are subject to significant step-ups, specifically our maximum total leverage ratio. In the event our operating results indicate we will not meet our maximum total leverage ratio, we will take action to improve our maximum total leverage ratio which will include paying down our outstanding indebtedness with either cash on hand or from cash proceeds from equity issuances. The issuance of equity is outside of our control and there can be no assurance that management will be able to issue additional equity at terms that are agreeable to us. If we are unsuccessful in meeting our financial covenants, we will need to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders or otherwise we will be in default under our credit facilities, which would enable lenders thereunder to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding and exercise remedies with respect to collateral. If our lenders under our credit facilities demand payment, we will not have sufficient cash and cash flows from operations to repay such indebtedness. In addition, a default under our credit facilities or the lenders exercising their remedies thereunder would trigger cross-default provisions in our other indebtedness and certain other operating agreements. Our ability to amend our credit facilities or otherwise obtain waivers from our lenders depends on matters that are outside of our control and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in that regard. In addition, any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.Risks Related to Our Common StockThe price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult to resell our Common Stock when holders want or at prices they find attractive. The market price for our Common Stock has been highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from July 22, 2011 following the completion of our 2011 restructuring until February 25, 2014, the market price of our Common Stock ranged from $303.00 (as adjusted to give retroactive effect to our December 1, 2011 1:300 reverse stock split) to $4.56 per share. We expect the market price of our Common Stock to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a wide variety of factors, including the following: •fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of securities of similar companies; •general market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets; •variations in our operating results, or the operating results of our competitors; •changes in our financial guidance, if any, or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; •sales of large blocks of our Common Stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; •additions or departures of any of our key personnel; •announcements related to litigation; •changing legal or regulatory developments in the U.S. and other countries; and •discussion of us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities. In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies and that may be extreme. These fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We issued a substantial number of shares of Common Stock and shares of Convertible Preferred Stock convertible into shares of our Common Stock in connection with our 2014 Financing Transactions and have agreed to register such shares of Common Stock under the Securities Act, which could lead to significant sales of our Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Pursuant to the 2014 Financing Transactions, we issued an aggregate of 17,727,835 shares of our Common Stock and 583,334 shares of our Convertible Preferred Stock, which may become convertible into 2,333,336 shares of our Common Stock upon stockholder approval of an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, subject to certain limitations. We are unable to predict the potential effects of such issuance of Common Stock, including the shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock, on the trading activity and market price of our Common Stock. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement we entered into in connection with the sale of equity and the exchange of our Series B Notes, we have granted certain registration rights for the resale of shares of our Common Stock issued in the Sales and Series B Notes Exchanges, including the shares of our Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such shares of Common Stock into the public market, and would increase the number of shares of our Common Stock available for public trading. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. 13Table of ContentsFuture issuances of our Common Stock or equity-related securities in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. In the future, we may issue significant numbers of additional shares of our Common Stock to raise capital or in connection with a restructuring or refinancing of our maturing indebtedness. Shares of our Common Stock are reserved for issuance on conversion of our remaining convertible notes, exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of outstanding share units. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 33,000 shares of Common Stock, outstanding nonvested restricted stock and share units representing the right to receive a total of approximately 658,000 shares of Common Stock upon vesting and an aggregate of approximately 854,000 shares of our Common Stock was reserved for future issuance under our 2011 Incentive and Equity Award Plan (the “2011 Plan”). We have registered under the Securities Act all of the shares of Common Stock that we may issue upon the exercise of our outstanding options and the vesting of outstanding share units and on account of future awards made under the 2011 Plan. All of these registered shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, except for shares issued to our directors and executive officers, which sales are subject to certain volume restrictions. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our Common Stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that such issuances may have on the market price for our Common Stock. Sales of significant amounts of our Common Stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our Common Stock and the value of our remaining convertible notes and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. Further sales of shares of our Common Stock or the availability of shares of our Common Stock for future sale, including sales of our Common Stock by investors who view our remaining convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our Company or in connection with hedging and arbitrage activity that may develop with respect to our Common Stock, could adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock.We do not intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will be able to pay any dividends on shares of our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund operations, to service debt and to use for other corporate needs. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of holders of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes the issuance of five million shares of preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized to approve the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock without further authorization of our shareholders and to fix the number of shares, the designations, the relative rights and the limitations of any series of preferred stock. As a result, our board, without shareholder approval, could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights that could proportionately reduce, minimize or otherwise adversely affect the voting power and other rights of holders of our Common Stock or other series of preferred stock or that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control. Business RisksWe are a holding company and we are dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us.We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our consolidated operations and own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness substantially depends upon our subsidiaries' cash flow and payments of funds to us by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries' ability to make any advances, distributions or other payments to us may be restricted by, among other things, debt instruments, tax considerations and legal restrictions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries as a result of these restrictions, we may not be able to pay principal of, or cash interest on, our indebtedness when due, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources.We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, many of which are largely out of our control. These factors include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers' business cycles and changes in their business practices, particularly in market segments and industries, 14Table of Contentssuch as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers' business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Because a portion of our costs are fixed, it may be difficult for us to quickly adjust our cost structure proportionally with fluctuations in volume levels. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. Further, we depend on our suppliers for equipment, parts and services that are critical to our business. A disruption in the availability of these supplies or a material increase in their cost due to adverse economic conditions or financial constraints of our suppliers could adversely impact our business, results of operations and liquidity.We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to business risks and increasing costs associated with the transportation industry that are largely out of our control, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The factors contributing to these risks and costs include weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, interest rates, fuel prices and taxes, fuel surcharge collection, terrorist attacks, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, and letters of credit required to support outstanding claims, difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified drivers, the risk of widespread disruption of our technology systems, and increasing equipment and operational costs. Our results of operations may also be adversely affected by seasonal factors. Further, the future availability and support available for our current technology may make it necessary for us to upgrade or change these systems, which may be costly and could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations.We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Numerous competitive factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include the following: •We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and types, some of which have a lower cost structure, more equipment and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages.•Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain or grow our business.•Our customers may negotiate rates or contracts that minimize or eliminate our ability to offset fuel price increases through fuel surcharges.•Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected.•Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, which may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors.•The trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size.•Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments.•Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices.•As a union carrier, we may have a competitive disadvantage against non-union carriers with lower cost structures and greater operating flexibility. If our relationship with our employees and unions were to deteriorate, we may be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and place us at a disadvantage relative to non-union competitors. Virtually all of our operating subsidiaries have employees who are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ("IBT"). These employees represent the majority of our workforce at December 31, 2013. Salaries, wages and employee benefits composes over half of our operating costs.Each of our YRC Freight, New Penn, and Holland subsidiaries employ most of their unionized employees under the terms of a common national master freight agreement with the IBT, as supplemented by additional regional supplements and local agreements, a significant majority of which will expire on March 31, 2019. The IBT also represents a number of employees at Reddaway, and Reimer under more localized agreements, which have wages, benefit contributions and other terms and conditions that better fit the cost structure and operating models of these business units.15Table of ContentsOur subsidiaries are regularly subject to grievances, arbitration proceedings and other claims concerning alleged past and current non-compliance with applicable labor law and collective bargaining agreements.Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries can predict the outcome of any of these matters. These matters, if resolved in a manner unfavorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our pension expense and funding obligations could increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future funding obligations for our U.S. single-employer defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service depend upon their funded status, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels and actuarial experience and any changes in government laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries began making contributions to most of the multi-employer pension funds (the "funds”) beginning June 1, 2011 at the rate of 25% of the contribution rate in effect on July 1, 2009. A fund that did not allow our subsidiaries to begin making contributions at a reduced rate to the fund elected to either (i) apply the amount of the contributions toward paying down previously deferred contributions under our Contribution Deferral Agreement, or (ii) have the amount of the contributions placed in escrow until such time when the fund is able to accept re-entry at the reduced rate.If the funding of the funds does not reach certain goals (including those required not to enter endangered or critical status or those required by a fund's funding improvement or rehabilitation plan), our pension expenses and required cash contributions could further increase upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in investment returns that are not offset by contributions could also increase our obligations under such plans. We believe that based on information obtained from public filings and from plan administrators and trustees, our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal from or termination of all of the multi-employer pension plans would be an estimated $10 billion on a pre-tax basis. If we were subject to withdrawal liability with respect to a plan, ERISA provides that a withdrawing employer can pay the obligation in a lump sum or over time based upon an annual payment that is the product of the highest contribution rate to the relevant plan multiplied by the average of the three highest consecutive years measured in contribution base units, which, in some cases, could be up to 20 years. Even so, our applicable subsidiaries have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to payment of material withdrawal obligations, however we cannot provide any assurance that such obligations will not arise in the future which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.Ongoing self-insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels. We currently self-insure for a majority of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and workers' compensation. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may have to post additional letters of credit or cash collateral to state workers' compensation authorities or insurers to support our insurance policies, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Although we have significantly reduced our letter of credit expense in recent periods, there is no assurance this trend will continue. If we lose our ability to self insure, our insurance costs could materially increase, and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. We have significant ongoing capital expenditure requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. Our business is capital intensive. Our capital expenditures focus primarily on revenue equipment replacement, land and structures and investments in information technology. In light of our operating results over the past few years and our liquidity needs, we have deferred certain capital expenditures in recent years and may need to continue to do so in the future, including the next twelve months. As a result, the average age of our fleet has increased and we will need to update our fleet periodically. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our capital requirements, we may have to limit our growth, utilize our existing liquidity, or enter into additional financing arrangements, including leasing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment (including tractors and trailers) for longer periods resulting in increased maintenance costs, any of which could reduce our operating income. If our cash from operations and existing financing arrangements are not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure 16Table of Contentsrequirements, we may not be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our credit facilities contain provisions that limit our level of annual capital expenditures.We operate in an industry subject to extensive government regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. The U.S. Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security and various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. Our drivers are also subject to hours-of-service rules from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration ("FMCSA"). In the future, we may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations that the FMSCA, Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency or other authorities impose, including regulations relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one time period, security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. We are subject to various Environmental Regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liabilities for violations of, existing or future laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to Environmental Regulations dealing with, among other things, the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable environmental laws or regulations, it could significantly increase our cost of doing business. Under specific environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present terminals and at third-party waste disposal sites. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. In addition, as climate change initiatives become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments and our customers are beginning to promulgate solutions for these issues. This increased focus on greenhouse gas emission reductions and corporate environmental sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements, as well as increased indirect costs or loss of revenue resulting from, among other things, our customers incurring additional compliance costs that affect our costs and revenues. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements. These costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies would be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot assure you that these measures will not significantly increase our costs and reduce our operating margins and income. The outcome of IRS audits to which we and our subsidiaries are a party could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.The IRS may issue adverse tax determinations in connection with its audit of our prior year tax returns. See the "Income Taxes" footnote to our consolidated financial statements. We may incur significant expenses defending ourselves in these audits. We may be required to pay significant taxes and/or interest to resolve these audits. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.Current or future litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.We have been and continue to be involved in legal proceedings, claims and other litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation may be related to labor and employment, competitive matters, personal injury, property damage, safety and 17Table of Contentscontract compliance, environmental liability, our past financial restructurings and other matters. We are currently subject to putative class action litigation in connection with public statements made by prior management regarding our financial restructuring in 2009. We discuss legal proceedings in the “Commitments, Contingencies and Uncertainties” footnote to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some or all of our expenditures to defend, settle or litigate these matters may not be covered by insurance or could impact our cost and ability to obtain insurance in the future. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, including to our management due to the increased time and resources required to respond to and address the litigation. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome of any particular matter or any future legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. In the future, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could harm our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We may not obtain further benefits and cost savings from operational changes and performance improvement initiatives.In response to our business environment, we initiated operational changes and process improvements to reduce costs and improve financial performance. These changes and initiatives include evaluating management talent, reducing overhead costs, closing redundant facilities, making upgrades to our technology, eliminating non-core assets and unnecessary activities and implementing changes of operations under our labor agreements. There is no assurance that these changes and improvements will be successful , that their implementation may not have an adverse impact on our operating results or that we will not have to initiate additional changes and improvements in order to achieve the projected benefits and cost savings.Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our projections.From time to time, we use projections regarding our future performance. These projections, which are forward-looking statements, are prepared by our management and are qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the introductory section immediately prior to "Part I" of this Report. Our projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change.Projections are necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions and estimates relating to the projections furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our projections are only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the projections and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is projected. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our projections in making investment decisions in respect of our securities.Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy, the failure of some or all of the assumptions and estimates relating to the projections used by us or the occurrence of any of the adverse events or circumstances described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC could result in the actual operating results being different from the projections, and such differences may be adverse and material.18Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable. 