Item 1A. Risk Factors Milnacipran is our only product and if the results from the second Phase III clinical trial do not meet statistical significance, our development program may be terminated and we would have no products in our pipeline. Our only product candidate is milnacipran. If the results from our second Phase III clinical trial, which we expect in the second quarter of 2007, do not meet statistical significance, Forest or we may decide to discontinue development of milnacipran. If this were to occur, we would not have any drugs under development, it would have a material negative impact on our stock price, and we would be likely to pursue strategic transactions that could involve a change in control of our company or our ceasing operations entirely. There are limited data regarding milnacipran as a treatment of FMS and it may not work for FMS, especially in light of the results from our first Phase III clinical trial, or there may be safety issues with its use in this patient population. There are limited data supporting the use of milnacipran for the treatment of FMS and no data supporting the use of milnacipran for indications other than depression. In September 2005, we reported top line results from our first Phase III clinical trial for patients with FMS and our trial did not achieve statistical significance on our primary endpoint. These reported topline results from our first Phase III clinical trial have had a material negative impact on our stock price. Although milnacipran is currently being sold by Pierre Fabre outside North America as an antidepressant, it has only been tested as a treatment for FMS in our Phase II trial and one Phase III trial, which did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint. We must conduct and obtain favorable results in at least two pivotal Phase III trials to support an application for FDA approval of the product candidate. Under our current agreement with the FDA, our first completed Phase III clinical trial may not qualify as one of the registration quality studies necessary to support an application to the FDA. Although we have disclosed that an alternative analysis to the one we agreed to with the FDA, the BOCF analysis, yielded statistically significant results, the FDA may not accept this as a registration study because the BOCF analysis was not the prospectively defined analysis method for handling data for those patients who withdrew from the study prior to the assessment time point. In light of the fact that our first Phase III clinical trial did not achieve statistical significance using the analysis we agreed to with the FDA, it is possible that our second and third trials will also not achieve statistical significance. We experienced higher patient drop out rates in our first and second Phase III trials than in our Phase II trial for milnacipran. In general, in clinical trials the goal is to retain as many patients as possible so that the results are more easily interpretable. Milnacipran may not prove to be effective to treat FMS in our ongoing Phase III trials or any future trial. In addition, although we believe based on our analysis of the data, that the effect was durable, further studies may prove that any positive effects from patients taking milnacipran may not be durable. Furthermore, even if we elect to pursue the development of milnacipran for any other Functional Somatic Syndromes, such as IBS, it may not prove to be effective. In addition, all or any of our clinical trials may reveal that milnacipran is not safe. The FDA has never approved a drug for the treatment of FMS. If milnacipran is not demonstrated to be a safe and effective treatment for FMS to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies, including because we do not comply with the Special Protocol Assessment, we will not receive regulatory approval and our business would be materially harmed. Furthermore, the recent publicity related to safety issues in the market may make approval of any drug by the FDA more difficult. 13. Table of Contents We are dependent on our collaboration with Forest Laboratories to develop and commercialize milnacipran and to obtain regulatory approval. Events or circumstances may occur that delay or prevent the development and commercialization of milnacipran. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration agreement with Forest Laboratories, we granted Forest Laboratories an exclusive sublicense for the development and marketing of milnacipran, for all indications in the United States, with an option to extend the territory to include Canada. In addition, Forest Laboratories has the option to acquire an exclusive license from us in the United States, and potentially Canada, to any compounds developed under our agreement with Collegium Pharmaceutical. Forest Laboratories is responsible for funding the development of milnacipran, including clinical trials and regulatory approval, other than the external costs of the second Phase III trial, which we have agreed to fund. If the FDA approves this product candidate, Forest Laboratories will also have primary responsibility for the marketing and sale of the approved product and will share responsibility for compliance with regulatory requirements. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Forest Laboratories will dedicate to the development, approval and marketing of milnacipran. Further, it is possible that they may terminate development and our license agreement with them. Even if they continue to develop milnacipran, they may do so on a slower timeline than originally predicted. We have commenced a third Phase III clinical trial for which enrollment is targeted at 800 patients and with other competing fibromyalgia trials ongoing we may experience slower enrollment than we predict, which may also cause our development timeline to be extended. Our ability to generate milestone and royalty payments from Forest Laboratories depends on Forest Laboratories’ ability to establish the safety and efficacy of milnacipran, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of milnacipran for the treatment of FMS, all of which has been impacted by the reported results from our first Phase III clinical trial. We are subject to a number of additional risks associated with our dependence on our collaboration with Forest Laboratories, including: • Forest Laboratories could stop either or both of the ongoing phase III trials of milnacipran for the treatment of FMS or any other clinical trials for milnacipran or abandon or underfund the development of milnacipran, repeat or conduct additional clinical trials or require a new formulation of milnacipran for clinical testing, or delay the commencement of any additional clinical trials for milnacipran for the treatment of FMS; • We and Forest Laboratories could disagree as to development plans, including the number and timing of clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy, or as to which additional indications for milnacipran should be pursued, if any, and therefore milnacipran may never be developed for any indications other than FMS; • Forest Laboratories could independently develop, develop with third parties or acquire products that could compete with milnacipran, including drugs approved for other indications used by physicians off-label for the treatment of FMS; • Forest Laboratories could fail to devote sufficient resources to the development, approval, commercialization, or marketing and distribution of any products developed under our collaboration agreement, including by failing to develop specialty sales forces if such sales forces are necessary for the most effective distribution of any approved product; and • Disputes regarding the collaboration agreement that delay or terminate the development, commercialization or receipt of regulatory approvals of milnacipran, may delay or prevent the achievement of clinical or regulatory objectives that would result in the payment of milestone payments or result in significant litigation or arbitration. 14. Table of Contents Furthermore, Forest Laboratories may terminate our collaboration agreement upon our material breach or our bankruptcy and may also terminate our agreement upon 120 days’ notice in the event Forest Laboratories reasonably determines that the development program indicates issues of safety or efficacy that are likely to prevent or significantly delay the filing or approval of an NDA or to result in labeling or indications that would significantly adversely affect the marketing of any product developed under the agreement. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to find another collaborator for development or commercialization, especially given the existing Phase III clinical trial data as reported from our first Phase III trial, and even if we elected to pursue further development and commercialization of milnacipran, we would experience substantially increased capital requirements that we might not be able to fund. We rely upon an exclusive license from Pierre Fabre in order to develop and sell our milnacipran product candidate, and our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of milnacipran for the treatment of FMS depends upon the continuation of our license from Pierre Fabre. Our license agreement with Pierre Fabre provides us with an exclusive license to develop and sell any products with the compound milnacipran as an active ingredient for any indication in the United States and Canada, with a right to sublicense certain rights to Forest Laboratories under our collaboration with Forest Laboratories. Either we or Pierre Fabre may terminate the license agreement for cause upon 90 days’ prior written notice to the other party upon the bankruptcy or dissolution of the other party, or upon a breach of any material provision of the agreement if the breach is not cured within 90 days following the written notice. Furthermore, Pierre Fabre has the right to terminate the agreement upon 90 days’ prior notice to us if we and Forest terminate our development and marketing activities with respect to milnacipran, if we challenge certain patent rights of Pierre Fabre and under specified other circumstances. If our license agreement with Pierre Fabre were terminated, we would lose our rights to develop and commercialize products using the compound milnacipran as an active ingredient, as the compound is manufactured under Pierre Fabre patents and using Pierre Fabre know-how and trade secrets, and it would be unlikely that we could obtain the active ingredient in milnacipran from any other source. We rely upon Pierre Fabre as our exclusive supplier of the compound used as the active ingredient in our milnacipran product candidate and if Pierre Fabre fails to supply us sufficient quantities of the active ingredient it may delay or prevent us from developing and commercializing milnacipran. Pursuant to our purchase and supply agreement with Pierre Fabre, Pierre Fabre is the exclusive supplier to us and Forest Laboratories of the compound used as the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our milnacipran product candidate. Neither we nor Forest Laboratories have facilities for the manufacture of the product candidate. Currently, Pierre Fabre manufactures the active ingredient of milnacipran in its facility in Gaillac, France. Pierre Fabre is the only worldwide supplier of the active ingredient of milnacipran that is currently approved for sale as an antidepressant outside the United States, but is not approved for sale in the United States. If any product is commercialized under the agreement, Pierre Fabre or its sublicensee will have the exclusive right to manufacture the active ingredient used in our commercial product. If milnacipran is commercialized for use in the United States, Pierre Fabre’s facility or its sublicensee will need to be inspected by the FDA for compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements. Due to the projected commercial quantities of milnacipran that we may require and to provide a second manufacturing site, Pierre Fabre has agreed that within a certain time period after commercial launch of milnacipran, it will qualify an additional manufacturing facility. We do not have control over Pierre Fabre’s compliance with cGMP requirements or Pierre Fabre’s compliance with its obligation to qualify a second manufacturing facility. If Pierre Fabre fails or is unable to provide, in a timely and economic manner, required quantities of the active ingredient that Forest Laboratories or we request for clinical purposes, our development program could be delayed. In addition, if Pierre Fabre fails to timely and economically supply us sufficient quantities for commercial sale, if milnacipran is ever commercialized, our product sales and market acceptance of the product could be adversely affected. 15. Table of Contents Furthermore, our purchase and supply agreement may be terminated for cause either by us or by Pierre Fabre upon 90 days’ prior written notice to the other party upon a material breach of the agreement if the breach is not cured within 90 days following the written notice. We have the right to manufacture milnacipran if Pierre Fabre does not have a required buffer stock or in the event that we terminate our license agreement with Pierre Fabre under certain circumstances. If our purchase and supply agreement with Pierre Fabre is terminated, we are unlikely to be able to qualify another supplier of the active ingredient within a reasonable time period, and our ability to develop and commercialize milnacipran will be significantly impaired. Our agreements with Pierre Fabre and Forest Laboratories restrict our ability to develop specified compounds, which limits how we can expand our product candidates. Under our agreements with Pierre Fabre and Forest Laboratories, Forest Laboratories has agreed to pay Pierre Fabre and us a royalty, in the event that Forest Laboratories sells a product other than milnacipran for FMS for a specified period of time, which shall not be less than three years. We are, in turn, obligated to pay a portion of the royalty we receive from Forest Laboratories to Pierre Fabre. In addition, each of us is subject to limitations related to each party’s development of any serotonin norephinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or SNRI, products other than milnacipran. These limitations include: (i) a prohibition on developing an SNRI product for specified indications for which milnacipran is being developed; and (ii) a prohibition on developing an SNRI product for any indication for a specified time period, and after such specified time period, a requirement that if one of the parties launches and sells an SNRI product that is prescribed off-label for any indication for which milnacipran is being developed, the selling party must reimburse the other parties for lost sales due to the off-label use. Our relationship with Organon may terminate. As announced in June 2006, we mutually agreed with Organon that the completed Phase IIa trials did not support continuing a development program evaluating combinations of mirtazapine with another approved drug as potential pharmaceutical treatments for OSA. We are mutually exploring new potential opportunities to continue the collaboration. However, it is possible that we will not continue our collaboration with Organon. Provisions in our collaboration agreement with Forest Laboratories and our license agreement with Pierre Fabre may prevent or delay a change in control. Our collaboration agreement with Forest Laboratories provides that Forest Laboratories may elect to terminate our co-promotion rights for milnacipran or any other product developed under the collaboration agreement and we may lose our decision making authority with respect to the development of milnacipran if we engage in a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or if another person or entity acquires at least 50% of our voting capital stock. Our license agreement with Pierre Fabre provides that Pierre Fabre may elect to terminate the agreement upon a change in control transaction in which a third party acquiror of us controls an SNRI product, and the acquiror does not take certain actions (e.g., divestiture of such SNRI product) within a specified time period to cure the breach of certain restrictions in the agreement that results from such SNRI product. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or may reduce the number of companies interested in acquiring us. 16. Table of Contents We have limited experience in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions, including acquisitions of product candidates, and other targets, and we may incur unexpected costs and disruptions to our businesses if we make mistakes in our selection of future acquisitions or fail to integrate any future acquisitions. As part of our strategy, we are actively continuing to evaluate potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions of products, technologies and companies, in order to expand our product pipeline. As we did with our in-licensing of milnacipran, we may seek to in-license compounds or we may acquire products or businesses. Future acquisitions and licensing transactions would expose us to operational and financial risks, including: • higher development costs than we anticipate; • higher than expected licensing or acquisition and integration costs; • exposure to liabilities of licensed or acquired intellectual property, compounds or products; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to developing licensed or acquired compounds or products; • incurrence of dilutive issuances of securities or substantial debt to pay for licensing or acquisitions; and • impairment of relationships with key collaborators, suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management or ownership. We also may devote resources to potential strategic transactions that require several agreements and that we never complete or may fail to realize the anticipated benefit of any strategic transaction we do complete. We are at an early stage of development and we do not have and may never develop any commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. We are at an early stage of development as a biotechnology company and do not have any commercial products. We now have only one product candidate, milnacipran, which we sublicensed to Forest Laboratories in January 2004. Milnacipran or any future product candidates we may acquire or develop, will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and additional investment before they can be commercialized, if ever. Our product development and product acquisition efforts may not lead to commercial drugs, either because the product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, because we have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue clinical development of the product candidate, or because the FDA does not grant regulatory approval. For example, in mid 2006, we discontinued our OSA program because our Phase IIa trials did not support continued development. We do not expect milnacipran to be marketed for a number of years, if at all. We may not achieve our internal timelines and the results from our second Phase III trial for milnacipran may not be available in the second quarter of 2007, even though enrollment in this trial is complete. If we and Forest Laboratories are unable to develop milnacipran as a commercial drug in the United States, or if such development is delayed, we will be unable to generate revenues, may be unsuccessful in raising additional capital, and may cease our operations. 17. Table of Contents The FDA approval of milnacipran or any future product candidate is uncertain and will involve the commitment of substantial time and resources. Even if our Phase III trials for milnacipran or any future clinical trials are successful, we may not receive required regulatory approval from the FDA or any other regulatory body required for the commercial sale of milnacipran, or any future products in the United States. In addition, even if we do obtain approval to market milnacipran, the approval process by the FDA may take longer than we anticipate. The regulatory approval of a new drug typically takes many years and the outcome is uncertain. Despite the time and resources expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for milnacipran, or any future product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell any products and therefore may never generate any revenues from product sales or become profitable. In addition, our collaborators, or our third party manufacturers’ failure to comply with the FDA and other applicable United States or foreign regulations may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and refusal to approve new drug approval applications. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense, preclinical research and clinical trials for each product candidate sufficient to demonstrate its safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and other countries where the product candidate will be marketed if approved. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product, the disease or condition that the product is in development for and the regulations applicable to any particular product. The regulatory process typically also includes a review of the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and standards, including the cGMP requirements. The FDA can delay, limit or decline to grant approval for many reasons, including: • a product candidate may not be safe or effective; • we may not achieve statistical significance for the primary endpoint; • FDA officials may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we interpret such data; • the FDA might not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities, or the processes or facilities of any future collaborators or contract manufacturers, including Pierre Fabre’s facility for the manufacture of the active ingredient in milnacipran; and • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. We have agreed to pay certain external expenses associated with our second Phase III clinical trial evaluating milnacipran for FMS, currently being run by Forest Laboratories, and we may never be reimbursed for these amounts. The amounts we are funding for external expenses for the second Phase III clinical trial evaluating milnacipran, are only reimbursed to us by Forest Laboratories under specific scenarios where the second Phase III trial is used as one of the two required pivotal trials in the NDA submission to the FDA. The second Phase III trial might not be utilized as one of the pivotal trials in the NDA submission, and, in such event, we would not be reimbursed by Forest Laboratories for the external expenses that we fund in connection with the second Phase III clinical trial. It is also possible that Forest could alter the development 18. Table of Contents plan for milnacipran or even terminate our collaboration agreement, which would prevent us from ever being reimbursed for our funding of the external expenses for the second Phase III trial for milnacipran. If we receive regulatory approval for milnacipran or any other future product candidate, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continuing regulatory review. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaborators receive for milnacipran or any future product candidates will be limited to the indications, dosages and restrictions on the product label. We currently intend to seek approval for milnacipran in the treatment of FMS. The FDA may not approve milnacipran for our preferred indication(s) at all, may approve milnacipran for a more limited indication, or may impose additional limitations on the indicated uses or require post-marketing surveillance or the performance of potentially costly post-marketing studies. Even if we receive FDA and other regulatory approvals, as we have seen with other products on the market for pain, milnacipran or any of our other future product candidates may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or prevent their widespread use or that force us to withdraw those product candidates from the market. In our Phase II trial evaluating milnacipran for the treatment of FMS, the most common dose-related side effects reported by patients were nausea, particularly early in the study, as well as a slight increase in heart rate. In our first Phase III trial the most common adverse events leading to withdrawal among the milnacipran treated patients were nausea 6%, heart rate increase 2%, headache 2%, and depression 2%. Any marketed product and its manufacturer continue to be subject to strict FDA regulation after approval, including regulation of product labeling and packaging, adverse event reporting, manufacture, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping. Any unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. We rely on third parties to conduct all of our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize milnacipran or any of our other future product candidates. As of February 28, 2007, we had only 15 full-time employees. We have in the past and expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct all of our clinical trials. We and Forest Laboratories used the services of Scirex, a contract research organization, to conduct the first Phase III trial with respect to milnacipran, and have used Scirex to assist in the conduct of the second Phase III trial with respect to milnacipran. Because we do not conduct our own clinical trials, we must rely on the efforts of others and cannot always control or predict accurately the timing of such trials, the costs associated with such trials or the procedures that are followed for such trials. We do not plan on significantly increasing our personnel in the foreseeable future and therefore, expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct all of our future clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, or if they fail to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations and standards, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize milnacipran, or any of our other future product candidates. Even if our product candidates are approved, the market may not accept these products. Even if our product development efforts are successful and even if the requisite regulatory approvals are obtained, milnacipran, or any future product candidates that we may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The FDA has never approved a drug for the treatment of FMS, and we cannot predict whether milnacipran, if approved for these indications, will gain market acceptance. A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance of products including the following: 19. Table of Contents • timing of market entry relative to competitive products; • extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us; • rate of adoption by healthcare practitioners; • rate of a product’s acceptance by the target community; • availability of alternative therapies; • price of our product relative to alternative therapies; • availability of third-party reimbursement; and • the prevalence or severity of side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products. If milnacipran or any future product candidates that we may develop do not achieve market acceptance, we may lose our investment in that product candidate, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our competitors may develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any products we may commercialize. The biotechnology market is highly competitive. Large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have developed or are attempting to develop products that will compete with any products we may develop to target Functional Somatic Syndromes, such as FMS, or other central nervous system disorders. With respect to our FMS program, in January 2007, Pfizer Inc. publicly disclosed that it filed a Supplemental New Drug Application for pregabalin, as a treatment for FMS. Pregabalin is an approved drug and therefore, may be receiving some off-label use for the treatment of FMS. In addition, Wyeth is conducting Phase III clinical trials for DVS-233 in FMS and Eli Lilly and Company is conducting a Phase III program for duloxetine as a treatment for FMS. Duloxetine is a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, and as a dual reuptake inhibitor is therefore similar in pharmacology to milnacipran, which is a norepinephrine serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Based on the similar pharmacology, it is anticipated that duloxetine, which is currently approved for the treatment of depression and neuropathic pain, is receiving some off-label use for the treatment of FMS. Tricyclic antidepressants, or TCAs, which are inexpensive generic formulations, are currently viewed as the drugs of choice in treating FMS. Especially in light of the fact that Pfizer has filed a supplemental new drug application for pregabalin, it is possible that Pfizer and potentially some of our other competitors, including but not limited to Wyeth and Eli Lilly and Company, will develop and market products for FMS prior to us. This is compounded by the fact that our first Phase III clinical trial for milnacipran in FMS that did not achieve statistical significance at the p<0.05 level. It is also possible that our competitors will market products that are less expensive and more effective than milnacipran or any of our future products or that will render any of our products obsolete. We also expect that, in the treatment of Functional Somatic Syndromes and other central nervous system disorders, competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, pharmaceutical companies, universities and public and private research institutions will increase. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources, technical expertise, research capabilities and other resources than we do. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully. 20. Table of Contents We have the right to co-promote milnacipran, but we do not have the marketing, sales or distribution experience or capabilities. Our ability to co-promote any product developed under our agreement with Forest Laboratories is subject to our building our own marketing and sales capabilities, and we currently do not have the ability to directly sell, market or distribute any product. In addition, in the event our agreement with Forest Laboratories is terminated or with respect to any other product we may develop that is not covered by our collaborations with Forest Laboratories, we would have to obtain the assistance of a pharmaceutical company or other entity with a large distribution system and a large direct sales force or build a substantial marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. We may not be able to enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which efforts may not be successful. We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our product candidates, could hinder or prevent our product candidate’s commercialization success. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance and management care organizations and other health care payors to contain or reduce prescription drug costs may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. Successful commercialization of milnacipran in the United States will depend in part on the extent to which government, insurance and management care organizations and other health care payors establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for prescription drugs. Third-party payors are also encouraging the use of generic drugs. These trends could influence health care purchases, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs and result in the exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs or lower the prices of our product candidates. Our revenues from the sale of any approved products could be significantly reduced as a result of these cost containment measures and reforms. We rely on our employees and consultants for their scientific and technical expertise in connection with our business operations. We rely significantly on the scientific and technical expertise of our employees and consultants to conduct our business. As of February 28, 2007, we had only 15 full time employees and therefore, we rely heavily on our employees. In addition, because we have a small number of employees, we rely much more on consultants than do other companies. If any of our relationships with our employees or consultants are terminated, we may lose access to scientific knowledge and expertise necessary for the research, development and commercialization of milnacipran or any further products. We do not anticipate 21. Table of Contents significantly increasing our personnel in the foreseeable future and therefore, we expect to continue to rely on consultants and our current employees for scientific and technical knowledge and expertise essential to our business. Our employment agreement with our chief executive officer provides for “at will” employment, which means that he may terminate his services to us at any time. In addition, our scientific advisors may terminate their services to us at any time. We may be subject to product liability claims that could cause us to incur liabilities beyond our insurance coverage. We plan to continue conducting clinical trials on humans using milnacipran and the use of milnacipran may result in adverse effects. Although we are aware that there are side effects associated with milnacipran, we cannot predict all possible harm or side effects that may result from the treatment of patients with milnacipran or any of our future products, and the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be adequate to protect us from any liabilities. We currently maintain $10,000,000 in insurance for product liability claims. We may not have sufficient resources to pay any liability resulting from such a claim beyond our insurance coverage. We have a history of operating losses and we may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses during our history. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred net losses of $8.2 million, $8.6 million and $11.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $154.4 million. Our ability to become profitable will depend upon our and Forest Laboratories’ ability to develop, market and commercialize milnacipran, and our ability to develop, market and commercialize any other products. We do not expect to generate revenue from the sale of products for the next several years or become profitable in the foreseeable future and may never achieve profitability. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to scale back or discontinue the completion of any proposed acquisitions or adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits of any completed acquisitions. We agreed to pay certain expenses in connection with the second Phase III clinical trial for milnacipran in FMS. In addition, we will incur certain non-reimbursable expenses in connection with the development of milnacipran. We are also incurring expenses in connection with the evaluation of potential acquisitions or other strategic transactions and will incur additional expenses in the event we close any such transactions. We do not have any committed external sources of funding and we will likely need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt. The amount of capital we will require will depend upon many factors, including but not limited to, the evaluation and potential closing of any strategic transactions and the development strategy for milnacipran. If we are unable to raise capital when we need it, we may have to scale back or discontinue the evaluation or completion of any proposed acquisitions or strategic transaction(s). Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish propriety rights. We will likely attempt to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, including through our shelf registration statement, debt financings or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership percentage will be diluted. In addition, if we raise additional funds through 22. Table of Contents collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potential valuable rights to our potential products on terms that are not favorable to us. We may lose our net operating loss carryforwards, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. We have incurred substantial losses during our history and do not expect to become profitable in the foreseeable future and may never achieve profitability. To the extent that we continue to generate taxable losses, unused losses will carry forward to offset future taxable income, if any, until such unused losses expire. All unused federal net operating losses will expire 15 or 20 years after any year in which they were generated. The carryforward period is 15 years for losses incurred prior to 1996 and 20 years for losses incurred subsequent to 1997. Our federal net operating losses will begin to expire in 2008, and our California tax loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2007. Our stock price has been very volatile and will likely continue to be volatile. The market prices of the stock of technology companies, particularly biotechnology companies, have been highly volatile. For the period from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006, the high and low closing sales prices for our common stock ranged from $4.42 to $16.05. The results of our first Phase III clinical trial for milnacipran had a very material negative impact on our stock price and if our second Phase III trial results do not achieve statistical significance, we would expect the news to have a material negative impact on our stock price in the second quarter of 2007. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be affected by market volatility, as well as by our own performance. We expect our stock price to be volatile in the future due to our expected Phase III trial results in the second quarter of 2007. The following factors, among other risk factors, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • the results of our second Phase III clinical trial for milnacipran and any other clinical trials for milnacipran; • developments in our relationship with Forest Laboratories, including the termination of our agreement; • developments in our relationship with Pierre Fabre, including the termination of our agreement; • our entering into, or failing to enter into, an agreement for the acquisition of any products or companies, or an agreement with any corporate collaborator; • our available cash; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • developments in our patent or other proprietary rights; • fluctuations in our operating results; • litigation initiated by or against us; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation; and • economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis. 23. Table of Contents The concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may result in the entrenchment of management, prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. As of January 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors and stockholders who hold at least 5% of our stock beneficially owned and controlled approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. If these officers, directors and principal stockholders act together, they will be able to help entrench management and to influence significantly and possibly control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including a financing in which we sell more than 20% of our voting stock at a discount to the market price, the removal of any directors up for election, the election of the members of our board of directors, mergers, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets, going private transactions and other fundamental transactions. This concentration of ownership could also depress our stock price. We expect to continue incurring significant costs as a result of enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, have and we expect will continue to result in significant costs to us. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant financial resources and management time related to compliance activities. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Accounting pronouncements may affect our future financial position and results of operations. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Share-Based Payment” (or “SFAS 123R”). As a result, we have included employee stock-based compensation costs in our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, as discussed in Note 3, “Share-Based Compensation,” in the Notes to Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Our adoption of SFAS 123R will result in compensation expense that will increase our net loss per share for 2006 and future periods. Our estimate of future employee stock-based compensation expense is affected by the number of stock-based awards our board of directors may grant, as well as a number of complex and subjective valuation assumptions. These valuation assumptions include, but are not limited to, the expected volatility of our stock price and the expected term of employee stock options. 24. Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We rely primarily on method of use patents to protect our proprietary technology for the development of milnacipran, and our ability to compete may decrease or be eliminated if we are not able to protect our proprietary technology. Our ability to compete may decrease or be eliminated if we are not able to protect our proprietary technology. The composition of matter patent for milnacipran (U.S. Patent 4,478,836) expired in June 2002. Accordingly, we rely on the patent for the method of synthesis of milnacipran (U.S. Patent 5,034,541), which expires on December 27, 2009 and was assigned to Pierre Fabre and licensed to us and on patents on the method of use of milnacipran to treat symptoms of FMS (U.S. Patent 6,602,911), the method of use of milnacipran to treat FMS, chronic fatigue syndrome and pain (U.S. Patent 6,992,110) and the method of use of milnacipran to treat symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome (U.S. Patent 6,635,675) issued to us, to protect our proprietary technology with respect to the development of milnacipran. We have also filed additional patent applications related to milnacipran and to the use of milnacipran for FMS (and other related pain syndromes and disorders), although no patents have issued on these patent applications. Because there is very limited patent protection for the composition of matter of milnacipran, other companies may be able to sell milnacipran in competition with us and Forest Laboratories unless we and Forest Laboratories are able to obtain additional protection through milnacipran-related patents or additional use patents that may issue from our pending patent applications or other regulatory exclusivity. It may be more difficult to establish infringement of methods of synthesis, formulation or use patents as compared to a patent on a compound. If we or Forest Laboratories are not able to obtain and enforce these patents, a competitor could use milnacipran for a treatment or use not covered by any of our patents. We also expect to rely on the United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, for protection of milnacipran and our other future products. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments provide data exclusivity for new molecular entities, such as that in milnacipran. Once a drug containing a new molecule is approved by the FDA, the FDA cannot accept an abbreviated NDA for a generic drug containing that molecule for five years, although the FDA may accept and approve a drug containing the molecule pursuant to an NDA supported by independent clinical data. Amendments have been proposed that would narrow the scope of Hatch-Waxman exclusivity and permit generic drugs to compete with our drug. After the Hatch-Waxman exclusivity period expires, assuming our patents are valid, we still expect to rely on our method of use patents to protect our proprietary technology with respect to the development of milnacipran. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies are uncertain and may involve complex legal and factual questions. We may incur significant expense in protecting our intellectual property and defending or assessing claims with respect to intellectual property owned by others. Any patent or other infringement litigation by or against us could result in significant expense to us, including diversion of the resources of management. Others may file patent applications or obtain patents on similar technology or compounds that compete with milnacipran for the treatment of FMS. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that will be allowed and issued in patent applications. Once patents have issued, we cannot predict how the claims will be construed or enforced. We may infringe on intellectual property rights of others without being aware of the infringement. If another party claims we are infringing their technology, we could have to defend an expensive and time consuming lawsuit, pay a large sum if we are found to be infringing, or be prohibited from selling or licensing our products unless we obtain a license or redesign our product, which may not be possible. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. Some of our current or former employees, consultants or scientific advisors, or current or prospective corporate collaborators, may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to 25. Table of Contents competitors or use our proprietary technology for their own benefit. Furthermore, enforcing a claim alleging the infringement of our trade secrets would be expensive and difficult to prove, making the outcome uncertain. Our competitors may also independently develop similar knowledge, methods and know-how or gain access to our proprietary information through some other means. Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining proprietary rights to our product candidates and technologies and their uses as well as successfully defending these rights against third party challenges. We will only be able to protect our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or effectively-protected trade secrets cover them. Our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and technologies is uncertain due to a number of factors, including: • we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent applications or issued patents; • we may not have been the first to file patent applications for our product candidates or the technologies we rely upon; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • our disclosures in patent applications may not be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability; • any or all of our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • we may not seek or obtain patent protection in all countries that will eventually provide a significant business opportunity; • any patents issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • some of our proprietary technologies may not be patentable; • others may design around our patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside of the scope of our patents; or • others may identify prior art which could invalidate our patents. Even if we obtain patents covering our product candidates or technologies, we may still be barred from making, using and selling our product candidates or technologies because of the patent rights of others. Others may have filed and in the future are likely to file patent applications covering compounds, assays, genes, gene products or therapeutic products that are similar or identical to ours. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the area of central nervous system disorders and the other fields in which we are developing products. These could materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates or sell our products. Because patent applications can take many years to 26. Table of Contents issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or technologies may infringe. These patent applications may have priority over patent applications filed by us. Disputes may arise regarding the ownership or inventorship of our inventions. It is difficult to determine how such disputes will be resolved. Others may challenge the validity of our patents. If our patents are found to be invalid we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the inventions claimed therein. Some of our research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information to which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be impaired. In addition, in-licensed technology is important to our business. We generally will not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of in-licensed technology. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. There is significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If our drug development activities are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages. There are many patents relating to chemical compounds and the uses thereof. If our compounds are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages. A patentee could prevent us from making, using or selling the patented compounds. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us, protect our trade secrets or determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. From time to time, we may hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. Either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, whether we win or lose. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against our company or our collaborators could lead to: • payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed such parties’ patent rights; • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products; or • we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future products. The patent applications of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies involve highly complex legal and factual questions, which could negatively impact our patent position. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The United States Patent and Trademark Office’s standards are uncertain and could change in the future. Consequently, the issuance and scope of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. United States 27. Table of Contents patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and United States patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent office), which proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or processes. In addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the United States and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, we could lose our competitive advantage and competition we face would increase, reducing our potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. Item1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 