Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could significantly reduce our operating margins and income. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may significantly reduce our operating margins and income, many of which are largely out of our control. These include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles and changes in their business practices, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. The transportation industry is affected by business risks and increasing costs that are largely out of our control, any of which could significantly reduce our operating margins and income. Businesses operating in the transportation industry are affected by risks and costs increases that are largely out of our control, any of which could significantly reduce our operating margins and income. These factors include weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, interest rates, fuel prices and taxes, fuel surcharge collection, terrorist attacks, license and registration fees, insurance premiums and self-insurance levels, difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified drivers, the risk of outbreak of epidemical illnesses, the risk of widespread disruption of our technology systems, and increasing equipment and operational costs. 11 Table of Contents Our results of operations may also be affected by seasonal factors. Because of our self-insurance program, we may be required to accrue or pay additional amounts if the number and severity of claims is greater than originally estimated. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and significantly reduce our operating margins and income. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following: • We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which have a lower cost structure, more equipment and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages. • Some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain significant growth in our business. • Our customers may negotiate rates or contracts that minimize or eliminate our ability to continue to offset fuel price increases through a fuel surcharge on our customers. • Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. • Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors. • The trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size. • Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. • Competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and prices. If our relationship with our employees were to deteriorate, we may be faced with labor disruptions or stoppages, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our operating margins and income and place us at a disadvantage relative to non-union competitors. Virtually all of our operating subsidiaries have employees who are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (the “IBT”). These employees represent approximately 70% of our workforce. Each of Yellow Transportation, Roadway, New Penn and USF Holland employ most of their unionized employees under the terms of a common national master agreement as supplemented by additional regional supplements and local agreements. This current five-year agreement will expire on March 31, 2008. Other unionized employees are employed pursuant to more localized agreements. The IBT represents a number of employees at USF Reddaway under these localized agreements, which have wages, benefit contributions and other terms and conditions that better fit the cost structure and operating models of these business units. Certain of our subsidiaries are regularly subject to grievances, arbitration proceedings and other claims concerning alleged past and current non-compliance with applicable labor law and collective bargaining agreements. Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries can predict the outcome of any of the actions, activities or claims discussed above. These actions, activities and claims, if resolved in a manner unfavorable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, businesses and results of operations. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our income. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could significantly reduce our earnings. We currently self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and workers’ compensation. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our earnings could be significantly reduced. 12 Table of Contents We will have significant ongoing capital requirements that could reduce our income if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. The transportation industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into additional financing arrangements or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could reduce our income. Revenue equipment includes, among other things, tractors and trailers. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness could be adversely affected by any increase in requirements that we post letters of credit in support of our insurance policies. See “—Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our income”. If needed, additional credit capacity to support letters of credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us. We operate in an industry subject to extensive government regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. The U.S. Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security and various federal, state, local and foreign agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and permits to conduct transportation business. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the Departments of Transportation and Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or other authorities relating to engine exhaust emissions, the hours of service that our drivers may provide in any one time period, security and other matters. Compliance with these regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. The Environmental Protection Agency has issued regulations that require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines through 2010. These reductions began with diesel engines manufactured late in 2002. The regulations currently include subsequent reductions in the sulfur content of diesel fuel in 2006 and the introduction of emissions after-treatment devices on newly manufactured engines in 2007. In 2010 further measures will be required by the EPA, most likely involving additional emissions after treatment devices. These devices will be required for new vehicles manufactured 2010 and after. These regulations could result in higher prices for tractors and increased fuel and maintenance costs. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liabilities for violations of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations dealing with, among other things, the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of stormwater. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could significantly increase our cost of doing business. Under specific environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present terminals and at third party waste disposal sites. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. The IRS may issue an adverse tax determination concerning a deduction taken by USF (purchased by the Company in May 2005) in connection with its disposition of USF Worldwide. In 2002, USF Corporation deducted a loss for its worthless investment in the stock of its subsidiary USF Worldwide upon the disposition of that stock for no consideration. IRS has concluded that that deduction should be treated as a capital loss (because IRS questions whether the stock was totally worthless) which would not be fully deductible in 2002 or any other open tax year. We have protested that adjustment and requested an Appeals conference. The additional tax that could result should the loss ultimately be treated as a capital loss is approximately $50 million. USF established a reserve of approximately $19 million prior to our acquisition which has since been adjusted to approximately $18 million. We believe treatment as an ordinary loss is appropriate but have elected to retain the reserve previously established until resolution with the IRS is reached. An acceptable resolution may require litigation. Any tax liability other than $18 million would be an adjustment to the goodwill recorded in the purchase price allocation for the USF acquisition. We may be obligated to make additional contributions to multi-employer pension plans. Yellow Transportation, Roadway, New Penn, USF Holland and USF Reddaway contribute to approximately 20 separate multi-employer pension plans for employees that our collective bargaining agreements cover (approximately 70% of total YRC Worldwide employees). The largest of these plans, the Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan (the “Central States Plan”), provides retirement benefits to approximately 41% of our total employees. Our labor agreements with the IBT determine the amounts of these contributions. The pension plans provide defined benefits to retired participants. We recognize as net pension cost the contractually required contribution for the period and recognize as a liability any contributions due and unpaid. 13 Table of Contents We do not directly manage multi-employer plans. The trusts covering these plans are generally managed by trustees, half of whom the IBT appoints and half of whom various contributing employers appoint. Under current law regarding multi-employer pension plans, a termination, withdrawal or significant partial withdrawal from any multi-employer plan in an under-funded status would render us liable for a proportionate share of the multi-employer plans’ unfunded vested liabilities. This potential unfunded pension liability also applies to other contributing employers, including our unionized competitors who contribute to multi-employer plans. The plan administrators and trustees do not routinely provide us with current information regarding the amount of each multi-employer pension plan’s funding. However, based on publicly available information, which is often dated, and on the limited information available from plan administrators or plan trustees, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination from all of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute would be in a range from $3.0 billion to $4.0 billion on a pre-tax basis. The increase in this estimated range from 2005 reflects a change by the Central States Plan to a more current mortality table in the determination of their unfunded vested benefit liability. Yellow Transportation, Roadway and the applicable subsidiaries of Regional Transportation have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to withdrawal obligations. If the company did incur withdrawal liabilities, those amounts would generally be payable over periods of up to 20 years. In 2006, the Pension Protection Act became law and modified both the Internal Revenue Code (as amended, the “Code”) as it applies to multi-employer pension plans and the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (as amended, “ERISA”). The Code and ERISA (in each case, as so modified) and related regulations establish minimum funding requirements for multi-employer pension plans. The funding status of these plans is determined by the following factors: • the number of participating active and retired employees • the number of contributing employers • the amount of each employer’s contractual contribution requirements • the investment returns of the plans • plan administrative costs • the number of employees and retirees participating in the plan who no longer have a contributing employer • the discount rate used to determine the funding status • the actuarial attributes of plan participants (such as age, estimated life and number of years until retirement) If any of our multi-employer pension plans fails to: • meet minimum funding requirements • meet a required funding improvement or rehabilitation plan that the Pension Protection Act may require for certain of our underfunded plans • obtain from the IRS certain changes to or a waiver of the requirements in how the applicable plan calculates its funding levels or • reduce pension benefits to a level where the requirements are met the Pension Protection Act could require us to make additional contributions to the multi-employer pension plan from five to ten percent of the contributions that our collective bargaining agreement requires until the collective bargaining agreement expires. If we fail to make our required contributions to a multi-employer plan under a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan or if the benchmarks that an applicable funding improvement plan provides are not met by the end of a prescribed period, the IRS could impose an excise tax on us with respect to the plan. These excise taxes are not contributed to the deficient funds, but rather are deposited in the United States general treasury funds. Depending on the amount involved, a requirement to increase contributions beyond our contractually agreed rate or the imposition of an excise tax on us could have a material adverse impact on the financial results of YRC Worldwide. The Central States Plan has applied for, and the IRS has granted, an extension on the amortization of its unfunded liabilities through 2014, subject to Central States Plan improving its funding levels during that period and certain other conditions. The company expects these funding levels and conditions could form the basis of a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan. Assuming that the Central States Plan meets these conditions, it is expected to meet the minimum funding requirements, as the IRS has modified them, through at least 2014, as well as a funding improvement plan. Absent the benefit of the amortization extension that the IRS has granted to the Central States Plan, the Company believes that the plan would not meet the minimum funding requirements that the Code and related regulations require and the ability for the Central States Plan trustees to adopt a funding improvement plan acceptable to the IRS would be uncertain. 14 Table of Contents Our management team is an important part of our business and loss of key personnel could impair our success. We benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. Other than our Chief Executive Officer, William D. Zollars, and James D. Staley, head of Regional Transportation, we have not entered into employment agreements for a fixed period with members of our current management. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, business or financial condition. Our business may be harmed by anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are implementing various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies will be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If the security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so. We cannot assure you that these measures will not significantly increase our costs and reduce our operating margins and income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We did not have any unresolved staff comments during the current fiscal year. 