ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. The following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition or future results. If that occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMPANY AND HISTORY: We had a net loss in 2004, 2005 and 2006, and we do not anticipate we will be profitable in 2007 as we continue to develop our hydrogen technology. We incurred a net loss of approximately $27.2million (a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $29.5 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to a net loss of $8.8 million (a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $9.5 million) for the year ended December 31, 2005, and a net loss of approximately $7.5 million (a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $7.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2004. We anticipate further losses for the year ended December 31, 2007 as we continue to develop our hydrogen generation technology. There is also no assurance we will be profitable in the year ending December 31, 2008 or beyond. -12- We presently have no sources of operating income unless and until we develop commercially viable products or we provide for other capital sources the nature of which could be detrimental to our current shareholders. While we provided $8 million for our hydrogen operations in connection with the acquisition of that technology, such amount is not expected to provide working capital sufficient for us to develop and market any commercially viable products or services and we will be required to seek additional capital. In this regard, we may not be able to locate and successfully close on other sources of funds in the future, if necessary. Even if available, the cost and nature of any funds may not be on terms favorable to our current stockholders. Certain liquidity issues exist which could seriously limit our future existence and development We currently owe the Lenders, described in Item 1(a) above, approximately $1.1 million on the 2004 Notes that is payable over the balance of the year, which would substantially deplete working capital currently available to HPI. These Notes require a cash balance in excess of amounts due or a default may be declared. In addition, as previously noted, in March 2007, we owed approximately $400,000 on the GHTI Sublicense that remains unpaid. If GHTI were to give us notice, we would have to pay the amount due within 30 days, or the GHTI Sublicense could be terminated, and we would lose our rights to the technology contained therein. Payment of both the amounts due on the 2004 Notes and the GHTI Sublicense would leave us with limited working capital for operations for the balance of 2007, or conversely, utilization of our current working capital for operations could place us in default on either or both these sets of obligations, with serious consequences to our business. GHTI is a major shareholder of HPI and may consider waiver of the payment terms, but there is no agreement as to that waiver at this time. In addition, the Notes have certain provisions for payment to be made in stock under certain conditions and the Lenders have in the past agreed to settle cash obligations for stock in certain cases when those conditions have not been met. There can be no assurance they will agree at this time, given the recent decline in price of the stock, or if they do, that severe dilution may not result. Our management is currently assessing ways to potentially settle these obligations and in addition to secure addition operational capital. Please also see the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition later in this document for more details on these and other financial issues. We have certain limitations arising under the GHTI sublicense and the GHTI License from UBC Although we have certain exclusive rights to use the licensed technology in the United States, Mexico, Central America, and South America, and certain non-exclusive rights as to Canada as discussed elsewhere in this report, our major shareholder GHTI has retained rights outside those countries, and also has the right to enhancements we may make. This creates the possibility that GHTI could license the technology in areas not reserved to HPI, creating possible competitive industries using the same technology. Any such sub-license by GHTI would require the agreement of UBC and this may not be forthcoming. In addition, although UBC improvements are supposed to be part of the technology licensed to GHTI and sublicensed to us, UBC has sought patent protection in certain areas which we believe may be competitive to our licensed technology, and the issue of whether these should be considered “improvements” subject to our license has not been resolved. Management of GHTI is currently assessing this issue. If not adequately resolved, competitive technologies developed by UBC could be in the market place. We are subject to Sarbanes-Oxley and the reporting requirements of federal securities laws, which are expensive. As a public reporting company, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as the information and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and other federal securities laws. The costs of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will add significant cost to our preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, and furnishing audited reports to stockholders. -13- RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SECURITIES: Our common stock is quoted for trading on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board, which could limit the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock at prices and at times they believe appropriate. Our common stock is currently traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB), which is an electronic over-the-counter quotation service. Securities quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin board and pink sheets are only rarely covered by securities analysts. In addition, these quotation and trading systems generally involve a slower flow of bid, ask and sales information and fewer market making broker-dealers, which factors typically result in lower prices for quoted securities. As a result, our stockholders may have difficulty selling their shares of our common stock at times and at prices they believe appropriate. The conversion of outstanding preferred stock and the exercise of options and warrants, at prices below the market price of our common stock could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. On August 25, 2005, we issued 3,055 shares of Series K preferred stock in exchange for all of our previously outstanding Series G preferred stock and Series I preferred stock (for which there were approximately $3,055,000 in redemption value plus unpaid dividends). As of January 30, 2007, all 3,055 shares of our Series K preferred stock had been converted into 2,577,153 shares of our common stock. In addition, we have 100,000 shares of our Series L-3 common stock outstanding as described below. The conversion of any preferred stock either presently outstanding (Series L-3 as outlined below) or that may be issued in the future into an indeterminable number of shares of our common stock, and the exercise of options and warrants into a maximum of 3,912,742 shares of our common stock at the currently applicable weighted-average exercise price of approximately $2.81 per common share, may be below the market price of our common stock at the time such securities are exercised and converted. Depending on the number of shares outstanding and the market price of our common stock at the time of the conversion or exercise of these convertible securities, any issuance of common stock upon conversion or exercise at then-below-market prices may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders may experience significant dilution upon the conversion of our outstanding preferred stock. Series L Preferred Stock As part of our acquisition of Old HPI, we issued to the former stockholders of Old HPI 300,000 shares of the Preferred Stock. The Preferred Stock is convertible into common stock of the Company in three tranches of 100,000 shares each (referred to as the L-1, L-2 and L-3 Preferred Stock, respectively), on the 180th, 270th and 360th day following closing of the merger, respectively; each tranche shall be convertible into 40% of our common stock outstanding on the respective date of conversion. The conversion of the Preferred Stock is subject to the achievement by Old HPI of certain performance benchmarks as defined in the Certificate of Designation of Series L Preferred Stock, including Old HPI’s use of its hydrogen technology to develop prototype generators, with marketable value, for various micro and portable power applications and for various macro power applications such as fuel cells and internal combustion engines. The successful achievement of these benchmarks, and thus the conversion of the Preferred Stock, is determinable by our board of directors in their sole discretion. On January 3, 2007, we issued an aggregate of 12,594,622 shares of the Company’s common stock (with an additional 711,431 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options) to holders of two tranches of the Company’s Series L Convertible Preferred Stock (L-1 and L-2) upon conversion of 100,000 shares of L-1 and 100,000 shares of L-2 Convertible Preferred Stock. -14- Following the conversion of L-1 and L-2, we have issued an aggregate of 15,633,612 shares of our common stock to the Old HPI shareholders and there are 100,000 shares of L-3 that remain outstanding. In the event of the Series L-3 Preferred Stock is converted into our common stock, the former stockholders of Old HPI would own approximately 70% of our common stock on a post-transaction basis (assuming that we do not, prior to the conversion of the L-3 Preferred Stock, issue any additional shares of common stock other than pursuant to conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock). Based upon 28,111,356 shares of our common stock outstanding as of April 3, 2007, we would issue to the former stockholders of Old HPI approximately 11,244,538 additional shares of our common stock if the L-3 shares were converted, which includes approximately 600,000 shares reserved for issuance of outstanding Old HPI stock options. As a result, our current stockholders have experienced substantial dilution from the issuance of Series L-1 and L-2 and will experience additional dilution if the Series L-3 Preferred Stock is converted. The conversion of outstanding convertible notes at prices below the market price of our common stock could cause substantial dilution to our current stockholders and a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In March 2004, we closed on $5,000,000 of convertible promissory notes (the "Notes") with two financial institutions (the "Lenders"). The Notes carry a stated interest rate of 10% per annum and have a 45-month term. Interest only payments were due April 2004 through June 2004. Beginning in July 2004, principal and interest payments amortize over the remaining 42-month period. The Notes are senior to all other debt of Hydrogen Power and are collateralized by all assets of Chex as defined in the agreements. In December 2006, the terms of the Notes were amended to change the stated interest rate from 7% to 10% and the default rate of interest from 10% to 13%. The Notes are convertible into Hydrogen Power common stock at $6.885 per share up to an amount equal to 4.99% of our outstanding common stock. We have the right under certain conditions to make any monthly payment of principal and interest in shares of our common stock. If we exercise our right, the common stock was to be issued based on 85% of the average bid price for 20 trading days prior to the payment due date. During the third quarter of 2006, we agreed with the lender to alter the terms of the optional stock payment provision of the loans given the difficulty of obtaining closing bid prices on non-listed stocks. The payment can now be issued at 80% of the average closing price of our common stock for the three or twenty days immediately prior to the payment date, whichever is lower. The maximum number of shares that can be delivered as payment is to be equal to 10% of the average monthly trading volume for the month prior to the payment due date. The Company may also issue common shares each month in an amount not to exceed 10% of the prior month's total share volume as payment, to be applied to the outstanding principal balance up to a value of $100,000. Certain of these provisions can be, and have been, waived by the lender allowing us to make larger portions of some monthly payments in common stock. During 2005, we issued a total of 207,230 shares of its common stock valued at $863,840 as partial payments to the Lenders, with the other portions paid in cash to the Lenders, resulting in full payment. During 2006, we issued an additional 265,524 shares of our common stock valued at $743,541 as partial payment with the balance of each payment made in cash, resulting in full payment. It will likely be necessary for us to convert these debts to equity, if possible, as discussed more fully in other risk factors above. The principal balance of the two remaining notes was approximately $1,147,000 at April 8, 2007. As a result of our issuance of common stock in consideration for all or part of the monthly payments on these notes, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution unless we make all of our payments in cash, or the notes are paid in full. Depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the conversion of these loans, any issuance of common stock at then-below-market prices may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We have a history of converting certain portions of our outstanding notes payable and other debts to common stock causing dilution to our stockholders. In the past, we have converted certain notes payable, accounts payable and other liabilities to equity by issuing shares of our common stock. Our board of directors previously authorized us to allow the -15- conversion of certain notes and other debts outstanding to equity and be paid in our common stock at prices up to 15% below the current trailing 10 day average closing price. As a result of this policy, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution should we be successful in converting other debts to equity in the future. During the period from October to December 2006, we issued 234,909 shares of our common stock from the conversion of $319,258 in outstanding debt to unaffiliated parties. This amount does not include an additional 100,000 shares issued to our former president and director in December 2006 pursuant to the Letter Agreement as described under Item 1 (a) above. The former stockholders of Old HPI generally, and its former majority stockholder specifically, are able to exert significant control over our Company. Assuming the conversion of all of the Series L Preferred Stock, the former securityholders of Old HPI who presently own approximately 54% of our common stock would hold approximately 70% of our outstanding common stock on a post-transaction basis. Additionally, GHTI, Old HPI’s former majority stockholder, which presently owns approximately 49% of our common stock would beneficially own approximately 63% of our outstanding common stock on a post-transaction basis, and now has and would thus have significant influence and effective control over the management of our business, the election of directors and all matters requiring stockholder approval. A substantial number of shares will be eligible for future sale by the Old HPI shareholders and the sale of those shares could adversely affect our stock price. As part of the acquisition agreement with Old HPI, we agreed to register for sale all of the shares of common stock and warrants issued as a result of the Acquisition. As a result, we have registered approximately 2.1 million of the shares of common stock and warrants issued in the HPI transaction that became eligible for immediate public sale. This could adversely affect the public market for our common stock should a significant portion of these shares be offered for sale at any given time. This could cause a significant decline in the market price for our common stock and therefore affect the value of any of our securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR HYDROGEN POWER TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS Our hydrogen power technology development business has a limited operating history on which to evaluate our business and currently possesses unproven hydrogen generation technology. Following our acquisition of Old HPI, we continue to conduct research and development on our unproven hydrogen power generation technology. Our business plan is subject to significant further product development and there is a lack of meaningful historical financial data that makes it difficult to evaluate its prospects. To the extent that we are able to implement our business plan, our business will be subject to all of the problems that typically affect a business with a limited operating history, such as unanticipated expenses, capital shortfalls, delays in technology development and possible cost overruns. In addition, our hydrogen generation system has marketable potential but is an innovative product that has not yet been proven on a commercial scale or introduced to the market. We may not be able to achieve commercialization of our potential products on the timetable we anticipate, or at all. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop commercially viable hydrogen power generation products on the timetable we anticipate, or at all. The commercialization of hydrogen power generation products require substantial technological advances to improve the efficiency, functionality, durability, reliability, cost and performance of these products and to develop commercial volume manufacturing processes for these products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to internally develop the technology necessary for commercialization of our hydrogen power generation products, or that we will be able to acquire or license any required technology from third parties. Developing the technology for high-volume commercialization requires substantial capital, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate or secure sufficient funding on acceptable terms to pursue commercialization plans. In addition, before any product can be released to market, it must be subjected to numerous field tests. These field -16- tests may encounter problems and delays for a number of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If these field tests reveal technical defects or reveal that Hydrogen Power’s potential products do not meet performance goals, including useful life, reliability, and durability, our commercialization schedule could be delayed, and potential purchasers may decline to purchase future systems and products. The commercialization of our hydrogen power generation systems also depend upon our ability to significantly reduce the costs of these systems and products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sufficiently reduce the cost of these products without reducing its performance, reliability and durability, which would adversely affect consumers’ willingness to buy future products. We have no operating revenue to date as a hydrogen technology company and a history of losses. We may be unable to generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. As a development stage company, prior to our acquiring Old HPI, it experienced operating losses for each quarterly and annual period since its inception in December 2003. It experienced net losses of approximately $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $767,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, Old HPI had an accumulated deficit of approximately $3.7 million. As a result of the Acquisition, Old HPI losses are now included in our consolidated financial statements for 2006 from the effective date of the acquisition, March 14, 2006. We expect our losses and cash expenditures to continue over the next several years as we work to develop commercially viable products based on our hydrogen generation technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully execute our business plan. The execution of our business plan poses many challenges and is based on a number of assumptions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully execute our business plan. Narrowing the scope of our development activities may not accelerate product commercialization. If we experience significant cost overruns on any of our product development programs, or if our business plan is more costly than anticipated, certain research and development activities may be delayed or eliminated, resulting in changes or delays to our commercialization plans. Our failure to obtain necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our business plan and hinder or delay product development. In order to develop a product or products utilizing our hydrogen power generation technology, we will require substantial additional financing. This financing would likely include equity or debt financing which would likely cause substantial dilution to our current stockholders. We may not be able to obtain such additional equity or debt financing when we need it or at all. Even if such financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future, we may be unable to develop any commercially viable hydrogen generation product, further protect our intellectual property sufficiently, meet customer demand for any products that may be developed or withstand adverse operating results should successful product development occur. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when required, our continued operations may have to be scaled down or even ceased and any ability to generate future revenues would be negatively affected. Potential fluctuations in our financial and business results makes forecasting difficult and may restrict our access to funding for our commercialization plan. We expect our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, quarter to quarter comparisons of these operating results are not expected to be meaningful. Due to our hydrogen power technology business’ stage of development, it is difficult to predict potential future revenues or results of operations accurately. It is likely that in one or more future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts. In addition, investors or security analysts may misunderstand our business decisions or have expectations that are inconsistent with our business plan. This may result in our business activities not meeting their expectations. Not meeting investor or security -17- analyst expectations may materially and adversely impact the trading price of our common shares, and increase the cost and restrict our ability to secure required funding to pursue our commercialization plans. A mass market for our products may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Even if successfully commercialized, our hydrogen power generation systems will result in products sold in markets that are still emerging, and about which little is known. As a result, we do not know whether end-users will want to use those products. The development of a mass market for our hydrogen power generation technology may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products, the future cost of raw materials used by our systems, regulatory requirements, consumer perceptions of the safety of any developed products and related fuels, and consumer reluctance to buy a new product. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, we may be unable to recover the losses it will have incurred in the development of potential products and may never achieve profitability. In addition, we cannot guarantee that Hydrogen Power will be able to develop, manufacture or market any products if sales levels do not support the continuation of those products. Regulatory changes could hurt the market for our products. Changes in existing government regulations and the emergence of new regulations with respect to hydrogen generation systems may hurt the market for any developed products. Environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. (particularly in California) and other countries have driven interest in vehicular alternate energy systems. We cannot guarantee that these laws and policies will not change. Changes in these laws and other laws and policies or the failure of these laws and policies to become more widespread could result in consumers abandoning their interest in hydrogen generation systems in favor of alternative technologies. In addition, as alternative energy products are introduced into the market, the U.S. and other governments may impose burdensome requirements and restrictions on the use of these technologies that could reduce or eliminate demand for some or all of Hydrogen Power’s potential products. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology, which could weaken our competitive position, eliminate the potential for future revenue and increase costs. We believe that our long-term success will depend to a large degree on our ability to protect the proprietary technology that we have licensed or acquired or may develop or acquire in the future. Although we intend to aggressively pursue anyone we reasonably believe is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, initiating and maintaining suits against third parties that may infringe upon those intellectual property rights will require substantial financial resources. We may not have the financial resources to bring such suits and if it does bring such suits, it may not prevail. Regardless of our success in any such actions, we could incur significant expenses in connection with such suits. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business and prospects because we believe that developing new systems and products that are unique to us is critical to our success. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. However, some of our intellectual property may not be covered by any patent or patent application, and the patents that we have licensed will eventually expire. We cannot assure that our present or future issued patents will protect its technology. Moreover, our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, there is no assurance that: · any of the patents licensed by us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable, or licensed to others; or · any potential future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage sought by us, if issued at all. -18- In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. We may also seek to protect our proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with strategic partners and employees. We can provide no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Our intellectual property has been licensed on an exclusive basis, within certain geographical limitations, from GHTI, and UBC, who may also license such intellectual property to others, including competitors in other geographic areas. If necessary or desirable, we may seek further licenses under the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, we can give no assurances that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for intellectual property we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the development, manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the use of such intellectual property. We may be involved in intellectual property litigation that causes us to incur significant expenses or prevents us from selling any developed products. We may become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or commence lawsuits against others who we believe are infringing upon our rights. Involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, adversely affecting the development of the challenged product or intellectual property and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in its favor. In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: · pay substantial damages; · cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of any developed products that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; · expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; · discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or · obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We can provide no assurance that we would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. As alternative energy technologies including hydrogen power generation technologies have the potential to replace existing power products, competition for those products will come from current power technologies, from improvements to current power technologies and from new alternative power technologies, including other types of alternative energy technologies. Each of our target markets is currently serviced by existing manufacturers with existing customers and suppliers. These manufacturers use proven and widely accepted technologies such as internal combustions engines and turbines as well as coal, oil and nuclear powered generators. Additionally, there are competitors working on developing technologies other than hydrogen power -19- generation systems (such as fuel cells, advanced Lithium-ion batteries and battery/fuel cell hybrids) in each of our targeted markets. Some of these technologies are as capable of fulfilling existing and proposed regulatory requirements as our technology. There are many different individuals, institutions and companies across the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan, including corporations, national laboratories and universities that are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of alternative energy technologies including hydrogen generation technologies. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in any of our future target markets. Many of these competitors have substantial financial resources, customer bases, strategic alliances, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, and businesses or other resources which give them significant competitive advantages over Hydrogen Power. The loss of the services of certain key employees, or the failure to attract additional key individuals, would materially adversely affect our business. Our success could depend on the continued services of certain research and marketing personnel at our Seattle facility. In addition, our success depends in large part on our ability in the future to attract and retain key management, engineering, scientific, manufacturing and operating personnel. Recruiting personnel for the alternative energy industries is highly competitive. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain qualified executive, managerial and technical personnel needed for the development of potential products business. Our failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Liquidity issues, discussed earlier, could severely impact our ability to attract qualified key personnel or retain existing personnel. Hydrogen products use inherently dangerous, flammable fuels, which could subject our business to product liability claims. Our technology exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in hydrogen and products that use hydrogen. Hydrogen is a flammable gas and therefore a potentially dangerous product. Any accidents involving our technology or future products or other hydrogen-based products could materially impede widespread market acceptance and demand for hydrogen energy products. In addition, we may be held responsible for damages beyond the scope any insurance coverage. We also cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain any necessary insurance coverage on acceptable terms. RISKS RELATED TO THE BUSINESS OF OUR MAJORITY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY FASTFUNDS FINANCIAL CORPORATION: FastFunds has no significant operating business. In January 2006, FastFunds sold substantially all of its operating business, owned by Chex, to Game Financial Corporation. The company currently has no significant operating business. As a result, any investment in FastFunds must be considered purely speculative. FastFunds’ balance sheet contains certain notes payable, which were due February 28, 2007. Chex previously relied on promissory notes (the “Chex Notes”) issued to private investors to provide operating capital for its business. As of December 31, 2006, the balance of the Chex Notes was $2,108,000. FastFunds renewed $283,000 of the Chex Notes on the same terms and conditions as previously existed. In April 2007 FastFunds, through a financial advisor, restructured $1,825,000 of the Chex Notes (the “Restructured Notes”). The Restructured Notes carry a stated interest rate of 15% and mature on February 28, 2008. Of the Restructured Notes, $150,000 and $175,000, respectively, have 90 day and 120 day provisions, whereby the noteholder can request repayment. However, FastFunds does not currently have enough capital to repay the Restructured Notes when they mature. Accordingly, the noteholders may take action against the Company, including forcing the Company into bankruptcy. -20- Chex is a guarantor of certain debt of HPI, and the Company’s entire investment in Chex (i.e., its ownership of all outstanding Chex stock) is subject to a security interest securing such obligation. Furthermore, all of the assets of Chex are subject to a security interest for the same debt. In March 2004, HPI closed on $5 million of debt financing and issued convertible promissory notes in that principal amount to two financial institutions (the “Lenders”). The proceeds from the promissory notes were immediately thereafter loaned to Chex. The promissory notes are collateralized, among other things, by all of the assets of Chex, and by the Company common stock owned by HPI. In conjunction with the Asset Sale, the holders of the promissory notes consented to the sale of assets that secured their notes. In contemplation of the Redemption Agreement described above, on December 29, 2006, HPI and FastFunds obtained the consent of the two financial institutions to complete the transactions contemplated by the Redemption Agreement. Contemporaneously with receipt of the consent, HPI and FastFunds entered into an Note and Security Amendment Agreement dated December 29, 2006 with the Lenders, pursuant to which it was agreed to amend certain terms of the Convertible Promissory Note dated March 8, 2004 in favor of Lenders in the principal amount of $5,000,000 to increase the interest rate applicable to the Convertible Promissory Notes from 7% per annum to 10% per annum and the default interest rate from 10% to 13%. Accordingly, if we default on the obligations specified under the promissory notes, and if Chex cannot cure such defaults, FastFunds’ remaining assets could be lost. Chex is not expected to have the reserves to pay any of such claims. There are currently outstanding securities convertible into or exchangeable for an aggregate of 4,329,280 shares of FastFunds’ common stock which, if converted or exchanged, will substantially dilute its existing stockholders. FastFunds currently has outstanding notes and securities convertible into or exchangeable for an aggregate of 4,329,280 shares of common stock under certain conditions. In addition, the effective conversion and exercise prices of 189,000 of such securities significantly lower than the current market value of FastFunds’ common stock. If these securities are converted into or exchanged for common stock, their issuance would have a dilutive effect on the percentage ownership of FastFunds’ current stockholders, including the Company. These securities consist of: (i) outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 189,000 shares of FastFunds’ common stock at a purchase price of $0.10 per share, which were originally issued to HPI in connection with the Merger; (ii) options to purchase 455,000 shares of its common stock at an average purchase price of $1.05 per share; and (iii) warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,685,280 shares of FastFunds common stock at a weighted average purchase price of $0.98 per share. FastFunds’ common stock trades only in an illiquid trading market, which generally results in lower prices for its common stock. Trading of FastFunds’ common stock is conducted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. This has an adverse effect on the liquidity of FastFunds’ common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and the lack of security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of the company and its common stock. This may result in lower prices for FastFunds’ common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for FastFunds’ common stock. FastFunds has not paid dividends to date, and has no intention of paying dividends to its stockholders, including the Company. To date, FastFunds has not paid any cash dividends and does not anticipate the payment of cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the only return on an investment in FastFunds’ common stock, if any, may occur upon a subsequent sale of the shares of common stock. -21- EMPLOYEES HPI currently employs nine full-time employees of whom seven work in technical capacities. FastFunds employs 2 full-time employees at its corporate office. Denaris, Key Financial Systems and Nova Financial Systems currently have no employees. ITEM 