Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s substantial debt could limit its ability to fund operations, expose it to interest rate volatility, limit its ability to raise additional capital and have a material adverse effect on its ability to fulfill its obligations and on its business and prospects generally. The Company has a substantial amount of debt and has significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2007, the Company and its subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness of $2.0 billion, on which it incurred $154.9 million of interest expense in 2007, and had total shareowners’ deficit of $667.6 million. In addition, the Company, at December 31, 2007, had the ability to borrow additional amounts under its revolving credit facility totaling approximately $167.9 million, subject to compliance with certain conditions. The Company may incur additional debt from time to time, subject to the restrictions contained in its credit facilities and other debt instruments. The Company’s substantial debt could have important consequences, including the following: • the Company will be required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; • the Company’s interest expense could increase if interest rates, in general, increase because approximately 40% of the Company’s indebtedness is based on variable interest rates; • the Company’s interest rate on its revolving credit facility depends on the level of the Company’s specified financial ratios, and therefore could increase if the Company’s specified financial ratios require a higher rate; • the Company’s substantial debt will increase its vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of its competitors that are less leveraged; • the Company’s debt service obligations could limit its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; • the Company’s level of debt and shareowners’ deficit may restrict it from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures and other general corporate requirements; and • a potential failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company’s debt instruments, which, among other things, require it to maintain specified financial ratios could, if not cured or waived, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fulfill its obligations and on its business and prospects generally. The servicing of the Company’s indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and its ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company cannot provide assurance that its business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that additional sources of debt financing will be available or that future borrowings will be available under its credit facilities, in each case, in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. If the Company cannot service its 7 Table of Contents indebtedness, it will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital, which may adversely affect its customers and affect their willingness to remain customers. The Company may not be able to negotiate remedies on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. The Company depends on the receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from its subsidiaries. Certain of the Company’s material subsidiaries are subject to regulatory authority that may potentially limit the ability of a subsidiary to distribute funds or assets. If the Company’s subsidiaries were to be prohibited from paying dividends or making distributions to Cincinnati Bell Inc. (“CBI”), the parent company, CBI may not be able to make the scheduled interest and principal repayments on its $1.8 billion of debt. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and the trading price of the Cincinnati Bell common stock, preferred stock, and debt instruments. The Company’s creditors and preferred stockholders have claims that are superior to claims of the holders of Cincinnati Bell common stock. Accordingly, in the event of the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization, payment is first made on the claims of creditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, then preferred stockholders and finally, if amounts are available, to holders of Cincinnati Bell common stock. The Company depends on its credit facilities to provide for its financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations. The Company depends on its credit facilities to provide for temporary financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $55.0 million of outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility and had outstanding letters of credit totaling $27.1 million, leaving $167.9 million in additional borrowing availability under its $250 million revolving credit facility. The ability to borrow from the credit facilities is predicated on the Company’s compliance with covenants. Failure to satisfy these covenants would constrain or prohibit its ability to borrow under the credit facilities. As of December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants of its credit facilities. The credit facilities and other indebtedness impose significant restrictions on the Company. The Company’s debt instruments impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on the Company. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, the Company’s ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • make investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • sell assets; • guarantee indebtedness; • declare or pay dividends or other distributions to shareholders; • repurchase equity interests; • redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to such indebtedness; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries; • issue or sell capital stock of certain of its subsidiaries; and • consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of its assets and the assets of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In addition, the Company’s credit facilities and debt instruments include restrictive covenants that may materially limit the Company’s ability to prepay debt and preferred stock. The agreements governing the credit facilities also require the Company to achieve and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. 8 Table of Contents The restrictions contained in the terms of the credit facilities and its other debt instruments could: • limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict the Company’s activities or business plans; and • adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, or other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be in its interest. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the Company’s inability to comply with the required financial ratios would result in a default under some or all of the debt agreements. During the occurrence and continuance of a default, lenders may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Additionally, under the credit facilities, the lenders may elect not to provide loans until such default is cured or waived. The Company’s debt instruments also contain cross-acceleration provisions, which generally cause each instrument to be subject to early repayment of outstanding principal and related interest upon a qualifying acceleration of any other debt instrument. Payments to repurchase common stock under the Company’s repurchase program (see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) are considered restricted payments under certain of the Company’s debt agreements, and such payments are limited under these debt agreements. The Company believes it has sufficient ability under these debt agreements to make these restricted payments to buy back the amounts of outstanding common stock that it intends to repurchase in 2008. However, a downturn in the Company’s profitability could cause the Company not to have sufficient ability under its debt agreements to make its intended common stock buybacks in 2008, and/or could cause the Company not to be able to make additional common stock buybacks in the future. The Company’s future cash flows could be adversely affected if it is unable to realize fully its deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a net deferred tax asset of $596.2 million, which includes U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $492.3 million, alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $9.4 million, state and local net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $134.6 million, deferred tax temporary differences and other tax attributes of $99.9 million, offset by valuation allowances of $140.0 million. The valuation allowances have been provided against certain state and local net operating losses and other deferred assets due to the uncertainty of the Company’s ability to utilize the assets within the statutory expiration period. For more information concerning the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards, deferred tax assets, and valuation allowance, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of the Company’s deferred tax assets enables it to satisfy current and future tax liabilities without the use of the Company’s cash resources. If the Company is unable for any reason to fully realize its deferred tax assets, its net income, shareowners’ equity, and future cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company operates in highly competitive industries and its customers may not continue to purchase services, which could result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. The telecommunications industry is very competitive. Competitors may reduce pricing, create new bundled offerings, or develop new technologies, products, or services. If the Company cannot continue to offer reliable, competitively priced, value-added services, or if the Company does not keep pace with technological advances, competitive forces could adversely affect it through a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue and profit margins. The Company has lost, and will likely continue to lose, access lines as a part of its customer base utilizes service of competitive wireline or wireless providers in lieu of the Company’s local wireline service. The Wireline segment faces competition from other local exchange carriers, wireless service providers, inter-exchange carriers, and cable, broadband, and Internet service providers. The Company believes CBT could face greater competition as new facilities-based service providers with existing service relationships with CBT’s customers compete more aggressively and focus greater resources on the Greater Cincinnati operating area. Insight Cable, which provides cable service in the northern Kentucky portion of the Company’s ILEC territory, began to offer VoIP and long distance services in 2007. Time Warner Cable, AT&T, Verizon, and others offer VoIP and long distance services in Cincinnati and Dayton. Wireless providers offer plans with no additional fees for long distance. Partially as a result of this increased competition, the Company’s access lines decreased by 6% and long distance subscribers decreased by 1% in 2007. If the Company is unable to effectively implement strategies to retain access lines and long distance subscribers, or replace such access line loss with other sources of revenue, the Company’s Wireline business will be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Wireless competes against national, well-funded wireless service providers in the Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio metropolitan market areas, including AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile, Verizon and Leap. In addition, Time Warner Cable entered into a joint venture with Sprint Nextel. This joint venture purchased spectrum licenses in 2006 during the AWS spectrum auction conducted by the FCC and in 2007 began to offer wireless services. The Company anticipates that continued competition could compress its margins for wireless products and services as carriers continue to offer more minutes for equivalent or lower service fees while CBW cannot offer more minutes without incremental capital expenditures and operating costs. CBW’s ability to compete will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. Furthermore, there has been a trend in the wireless communications industry towards consolidation through joint ventures, reorganizations, and acquisitions. The Company expects this consolidation trend to lead to larger competitors with greater resources and more service offerings than CBW. In addition, wireless subscribers are permitted to retain their wireless phone numbers when changing to another wireless carrier within the same geographic area. The Company generally does not enter into long-term contracts with its wireless subscribers, and therefore, this portability could have a significant adverse affect on the Company. The Company also believes that these wireless competitors and in particular, companies that offer unlimited wireless service plans for a flat monthly fee, are a cause of CBT’s access line loss. Technology Solutions competes against numerous other information technology consulting, web-hosting, data center and computer system integration companies, many of which are larger, national in scope, and better financed. This market is rapidly evolving, highly competitive and likely to be characterized by over-capacity and industry consolidation. Other competitors may consolidate with one another or acquire software application vendors or technology providers, enabling them to more effectively compete with Technology Solutions. The Company believes that many of the participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve a significant presence to compete effectively. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that could impede Technology Solutions’ ability to compete successfully in the market. The effect of the foregoing competition on any of the Company’s segments could have a material adverse impact on its businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. This could result in increased reliance on borrowed funds and could impact the Company’s ability to maintain its wireline and wireless networks. Maintaining the Company’s networks requires significant capital expenditures and its inability or failure to maintain its networks would have a material impact on its market share and ability to generate revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2007, capital expenditures totaled $233.8 million, which included $97.4 million of capital expenditures related to data center construction and building its 3G wireless network. The Company expects to spend approximately 16% of 2008 revenue on capital expenditures, which includes approximately $19 million to finish building its 3G wireless network. The Company also purchased 10MHz of spectrum in the Indianapolis area in 2006. The Company is considering its options with respect to the Indianapolis spectrum, which include expansion of its wireless operations into this area, which would require significant capital expenditures, or lease of the spectrum to another wireless provider. The Company currently operates nine data centers, including those acquired through the purchase of GramTel in December 2007, and any further data center expansion will involve significant capital expenditures for data center construction. In order to provide guaranteed levels of service to our data center customers, the network infrastructure must be protected against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage, or other intentional acts of vandalism. The Company’s disaster recovery plan may not address all of the problems that may be encountered in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problem, which may result in disruption of service to data center customers. The Company may also incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated developments, regulatory changes, and other events that impact the business. If the Company is unable or fails to adequately maintain or expand its networks to meet customer needs, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company’s market share and its ability to generate revenue. 10 Table of Contents Maintenance of CBW’s wireless network, growth in the wireless business, or the addition of new wireless products and services may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum, and transmitting sites which may not be available or be available only on less than favorable terms. For its GSM network, CBW uses spectrum licensed to the Company. In 2006, the Company acquired additional spectrum licenses, primarily for its current operating territory and Indianapolis. Introduction of new wireless products and services, as well as maintenance of the existing wireless business, may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum, either to supplement or to replace the existing spectrum. Furthermore, the Company network depends upon the deployment of radio frequency equipment on towers and atop of buildings. The Company both owns and leases spaces on these towers and buildings and typically leases underlying land. There can be no assurance that spectrum or the appropriate transmitting locations will be available to CBW or will be available on commercially favorable terms. Failure to obtain or to retain any needed spectrum or transmitting locations could have a materially adverse impact on the wireless business as a whole, the quality of the wireless networks, and the ability to offer new competitive products and services. Data center business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, increased costs of energy or general lack of availability of electrical resources. Data centers are susceptible to regional costs of power, planned or unplanned power outages and shortages, and limitations on the availability of adequate power resources. Power outages, such as those that occurred in California in 2001, the Northeast in 2003, and from the tornados on the east coast of the U.S. in 2004, could harm the Company’s customers and business. The Company attempts to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies; however, the Company may not be able to limit the exposure entirely even with those protections in place. In addition, global fluctuations in the price of power can increase the cost of energy, and although contractual price increase clauses may exist and, in some cases, the data center customer pays directly for the cost of power, the Company may not be able to pass all of these increased costs on to customers, or the increase in power costs may impact additional sales of data center space. Long sales cycle for data center services may materially affect the data center business and results of its operations. A customer’s decision to license cabinet space in one of the Company’s data centers and to purchase additional services typically involves a significant commitment of resources. In addition, some customers may be reluctant to commit to locating in the Company’s data center until they are confident that the data center has adequate carrier connections. As a result, the sale of data center space has a long sales cycle. Furthermore, the Company may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular sale or customer that may not result in revenue. Delays in the length of the data center sales cycle may have a material adverse effect on the Technology Solutions segment and results of its operations. The Company’s failure to meet performance standards under its agreements could result in customers terminating their relationships with the Company or customers being entitled to receive financial compensation, which could lead to reduced revenues. The Company’s agreements with its customers contain various requirements regarding performance and levels of service. If the Company fails to provide the levels of service or performance required by its agreements, customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts and other financial compensation, as well as terminate their relationship with the Company. In addition, any inability to meet service level commitments or other performance standards could reduce the confidence of customers and could consequently impair the Company’s ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both ability to generate revenues and operating results. The regulation of the Company’s businesses by federal and state authorities may, among other things, place the Company at a competitive disadvantage, restrict its ability to price its products and services, and threaten its operating licenses. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to regulatory oversight of varying degrees at both the state and federal levels, which may differ from the regulatory scrutiny faced by the Company’s competitors. A significant portion of CBT’s revenue is derived from pricing plans that require regulatory overview and approval. 11 Table of Contents Different interpretations by regulatory bodies may result in adjustments to revenue in future periods. In recent years, these regulated pricing plans have required CBT to decrease or fix the rates it charges for some services while its competition has typically been able to set rates for its services with limited restriction. In the future, regulatory initiatives that would put CBT at a competitive disadvantage or mandate lower rates for its services could result in lower profitability and cash flow for the Company. In addition, different regulatory interpretations of existing regulations or guidelines may affect the Company’s revenues and expenses in future periods. At the federal level, CBT is subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, including the rules subsequently adopted by the FCC to implement the 1996 Act, which has impacted CBT’s in-territory local exchange operations in the form of greater competition. At the state level, CBT conducts local exchange operations in portions of Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana, and consequently, is subject to regulation by the Public Utilities Commissions in those states. Various regulatory decisions or initiatives at the federal or state level may from time to time have a negative impact on CBT’s ability to compete in its markets. CBW’s FCC licenses to provide wireless services are subject to renewal and revocation. Although the FCC has routinely renewed wireless licenses in the past, the Company cannot be assured that challenges will not be brought against those licenses in the future. Revocation or non-renewal of CBW’s licenses could result in a cessation of CBW’s operations and consequently lower operating results and cash flow for the Company. There are currently many regulatory actions under way and being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding issues that could result in significant changes to the business conditions in the telecommunications industry. Assurances cannot be given that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative, or judicial initiatives relating to the telecommunications industry, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Future declines in the fair value of the Company’s wireless licenses could result in future impairment charges. The market values of wireless licenses have varied dramatically over the last several years and may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: • Consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings; • A sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs; or • Market prices decline as a result of the sale prices in recent and upcoming FCC auctions. In addition, the price of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of the Company’s markets. For example, the FCC auctioned an additional 90 MHz of spectrum in the 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz band in the Advanced Wireless Services spectrum auction in 2006 and has announced the auctions of additional spectrum in the bands currently used by wireless providers, including an auction of 700 MHz in early 2008. If the market value of wireless licenses were to decline significantly, the value of the Company’s wireless licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. The Company reviews potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including wireless licenses and trademarks, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. A significant impairment loss, most likely resulting from reduced cash flow, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating income and on the carrying value of the wireless licenses on the balance sheet. Failure to anticipate the needs for and introduce new products and services or to compete with new technologies may compromise the Company’s success in the telecommunications industry. The Company’s success depends, in part, on being able to anticipate the needs of current and future enterprise, carrier, and residential customers. The Company seeks to meet these needs through new product introductions, service quality, and technological superiority. The Company has implemented GSM technology and is currently building its 3G wireless network, which is expected to be operational in 2008, and works with 12 Table of Contents vendors in its attempts to provide the newest handsets and accessories to its customers. New products are not always available to the Company, as other competitors may have exclusive agreements for those new products, such as the iPhone. New products and services are important to the Company’s success as its industry is technologically driven, such that new technologies can offer alternatives to the Company’s existing services. The development of new technologies and products could accelerate the Company’s loss of access lines and increase wireless customer churn, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets and the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect the Company’s operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S., U.S. businesses, or armed conflict involving the U.S. Further terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war may directly impact the Company’s physical facilities or those of its customers and vendors. These events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economy. They could result in an economic recession in the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with, or potential violations of, environmental, health, and human safety laws. The Company’s operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, health, and human safety, including those governing the management and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and the cleanup of contamination, and the emission of radio frequency. While the Company believes its operations are in substantial compliance with environmental, health, and human safety laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of property, and in connection with the current and historical use of hazardous materials and other operations at our sites, the Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with or violations of such laws, the imposition of cleanup obligations, and third-party suits. For instance, a number of the Company’s sites formerly contained underground storage tanks for the storage of used oil and fuel for back-up generators and vehicles. In addition, a few sites currently contain underground tanks for back-up generators, and many of the Company’s sites have aboveground tanks for similar purposes. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving a limited geographic area. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving customers in the Greater Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio areas. An economic downturn or natural disaster occurring in this limited operating territory could have a disproportionate effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows compared to similar companies of a national scope and similar companies operating in different geographic areas. Third parties may claim that the Company is infringing upon their intellectual property, and the Company could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products. Although the Company does not believe that any of its products or services infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, the Company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology, products, or services. Any litigation growing out of third-party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the Company’s management and key personnel from its business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require the Company to enter into costly license agreements. Likewise, the Company may not be able to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms. The Company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of its products. Further, the Company often relies on licenses of third-party intellectual property useful for its businesses. The Company cannot ensure these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. 13 Table of Contents Third parties may infringe the Company’s intellectual property, and the Company may expend significant resources enforcing its rights or suffer competitive injury. The Company’s success depends in significant part on the competitive advantage it gains from its proprietary technology and other valuable intellectual property assets. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets protections, confidentiality provisions, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect its intellectual property rights. If the Company fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operating results. The Company’s pending patent and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of its patents, copyrights or trademarks. Further, the Company may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police its intellectual property rights. The Company may not be able to detect third-party infringements and its competitive position may be harmed before the Company does so. In addition, competitors may design around the Company’s technology or develop competing technologies. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with the Company using that intellectual property. Uncertainty in the U.S. and world securities markets and adverse medical cost trends could cause the Company’s pension and postretirement costs to increase. The Company’s pension and postretirement costs are adversely affected by increases in medical and prescription drug costs. Investment returns of the Company’s pension and postretirement funds depend largely on trends in the U.S. and world securities markets and the U.S. and world economies in general. In particular, uncertainty in the securities markets and economy could result in investment returns less than those previously assumed and a decline in the value of plan assets used in pension and postretirement calculations, which the Company would be required to recognize over the next several years under generally accepted accounting principles. Should the securities markets decline and medical and prescription drug costs increase significantly, the Company would expect to face increasing annual combined net pension and postretirement costs. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with the Company’s employee benefit plans could negatively impact shareowner’s deficit and liquidity. The Company sponsors three noncontributory defined benefit pension plans: one for eligible management employees, one for non-management employees and one supplemental, nonqualified, unfunded plan for certain senior executives. The Company’s consolidated balance sheets indirectly reflect the value of all plan assets and benefit obligations under these plans. The accounting for employee benefit plans is complex, as is the process of calculating the benefit obligations under the plans. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in the Company’s benefit obligations or a significant decrease of the asset values without necessarily impacting the Company’s net income. In addition, the Company’s benefit obligations could increase significantly if it needs to unfavorably revise the assumptions used to calculate the obligations. As a result, these adverse changes could have a significant negative impact on its shareowners’ deficit. In addition, with respect to the Company’s pension plans, adverse changes could require the Company to contribute a material amount of cash to the plan or could accelerate the timing of any required payments. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements with its labor union when they expire, or if its unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, the Company’s business and operating results could be materially harmed. The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with its labor union, which represents a significant number of its employees. Although the Company believes that its relations with its employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements when they expire. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with its union arise, or if its unionized workers engage in a strike or a work stoppage, the Company could experience a significant disruption of operations or incur higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the business. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s collective bargaining agreement with its labor union expires in May 2008. As of January 31, 2008, representatives of the Company and the CWA tentatively agreed to a new contract, upon which the union membership will vote to approve or reject on February 27, 2008. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None. 