Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially affected by any of these risks.Risks Related to our IndebtednessThe Company’s substantial debt could limit its ability to fund operations, raise additional capital, and fulfill its obligations, which, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on its businesses and prospects generally. The Company has a substantial amount of debt and has significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2013, the Company and its subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness of $2,265.2 million, on which it incurred $182.0 million of interest expense in 2013, and had total shareowners’ deficit of $676.7 million. At December 31, 2013, the Company and its subsidiaries had no remaining borrowing availability under its accounts receivable securitization facility ("Receivables Facility"), but had the ability to borrow up to an additional $160.0 million under the Corporate Credit Agreement, subject to compliance with certain conditions. In addition, the Company's ability to incur additional debt from time to time is subject to the restrictions contained in its credit facilities and other debt instruments. The Company’s substantial debt has important consequences, including the following: • the Company is required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements;• the interest rate on its revolving credit facilities could increase if the Company fails to maintain specified financial ratios;• there is a variable interest rate on a portion of its debt which could increase if the market rates increase;• the Company’s substantial debt increases its vulnerability to adverse changes in the credit markets, which adverse changes could increase the Company's borrowing costs and limit the availability of financing;• the Company’s debt service obligations limit its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates;• the Company’s level of debt and shareowners’ deficit may restrict it from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, and other general corporate requirements; and• the Company’s debt instruments require the Company to comply with specified financial ratios and other restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, could limit availability to the cash required to fund the Company's operations and general obligations and could result in the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization.The Company’s creditors and preferred stockholders have claims that are superior to claims of the holders of the Company's common stock. Accordingly, in the event of the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization, payment is first made on the claims of creditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, then preferred stockholders, and finally, if amounts are available, to holders of the Company's common stock. 14Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Corporate Credit Agreement and other indebtedness impose significant restrictions on the Company. The Company’s debt instruments impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on the Company. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, the Company’s ability to: • incur additional indebtedness;• create liens;• make investments;• enter into transactions with affiliates;• sell assets;• guarantee indebtedness;• declare or pay dividends or other distributions to shareholders;• repurchase equity interests;• redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to such indebtedness;• enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries;• issue or sell capital stock of certain of its subsidiaries; and• consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of its assets and the assets of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.In addition, the Company’s Corporate Credit Agreement and debt instruments include restrictive covenants that may materially limit the Company’s ability to prepay debt and preferred stock. The agreements governing the Corporate Credit Agreement also require the Company to achieve and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. The restrictions contained in the terms of the Corporate Credit Agreement and its other debt instruments could: • limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict the Company’s activities or business plans; and• adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, or other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be in its interest.A breach of any of the debt's restrictive covenants or the Company’s inability to comply with the required financial ratios would result in a default under some or all of the debt agreements. During the occurrence and continuance of a default, lenders may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Additionally, under the credit facilities, the lenders may elect not to provide loans until such default is cured or waived. The Company’s debt instruments also contain cross-acceleration provisions, which generally cause each instrument to be subject to early repayment of outstanding principal and related interest upon a qualifying acceleration of any other debt instrument. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, would limit the cash required to fund operations and its general obligations and could result in the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. The Company depends on its Corporate Credit Agreement and Receivables Facility to provide for its short-term financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations, and the availability of those funds may be reduced or limited. The Company depends on the revolving credit facility under its Corporate Credit Agreement and Receivables Facility to provide for temporary financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had $40.0 million of outstanding borrowings under its Corporate Credit Agreement, leaving $160.0 million in additional borrowing availability under this facility. The $200 million Corporate Credit Agreement is funded by various financial institutions. If one or more of these banks is not able to fulfill its funding obligations, the Company’s financial condition would be adversely affected. The revolving commitments under the Corporate Credit Agreement will be permanently reduced by the lesser of (i) the amount of net cash proceeds from the first sale by the Company of its equity interests in CyrusOne or CyrusOne LP and (ii) $50.0 million, provided that such sale occurs by December 31, 2014. If such sale has not occurred by that date, the original revolving commitments will be permanently reduced to $150.0 million. In addition, the original revolving commitments will be further reduced to $125.0 million on December 31, 2015. 15Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.As of December 31, 2013, the Company had $106.2 million of borrowings and $5.2 million of letters of credit that were outstanding under its Receivables Facility. At that date, the Company had a borrowing capacity under this Receivables Facility of $111.4 million and a maximum borrowing limit of $120.0 million. The available borrowing capacity is calculated monthly based on the quantity and quality of outstanding accounts receivable and thus may be lower than the maximum borrowing limit. If the quality of the Company’s accounts receivables deteriorates, this will negatively impact the available capacity under this facility. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had no remaining borrowing availability under its Receivables Facility.In addition, the Company's ability to borrow under its Corporate Credit Agreement is subject to the Company's compliance with covenants, including covenants requiring compliance with specified financial ratios. Failure to satisfy these covenants would constrain or prohibit its ability to borrow under these facilities. The servicing of the Company’s indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and its ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company cannot provide assurance that its business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, additional sources of debt financing will be available, or future borrowings will be available under its Corporate Credit Agreement or Receivables Facility, in each case, in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If the Company cannot service its indebtedness, it will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, or selling assets, including its investment in CyrusOne, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital, which may adversely affect its shareholders, debt holders, and customers. The Company may not be able to negotiate remedies on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. The Company’s inability to generate the necessary cash flows could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. The Company depends on the receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from its subsidiaries and investments.Virtually all of the Company's operations are conducted through its subsidiaries and most of the Company's debt is held at the parent company. Certain of the Company's material subsidiaries are subject to regulatory authority which may potentially limit the ability of such subsidiaries to distribute funds or assets. If any of the Company's subsidiaries were to be prohibited from paying dividends or making distributions, the Company may not be able to make the scheduled interest and principal repayments on its debt. This failure would have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and the trading price of the Company's common stock, preferred stock, and debt instruments, which could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization.Risk Factors Related to our Business and OperationsThe Company’s access lines, which generate a significant portion of its cash flows and profits, are decreasing in number. If the Company continues to experience access line losses similar to the past several years, its revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations may be adversely impacted. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenues by delivering voice and data services over access lines. The Company's local telecommunications subsidiary, CBT, has experienced substantial access line losses over the past several years due to a number of factors, including increased competition and wireless and broadband substitution. The Company expects access line losses to continue into the foreseeable future. Failure to retain access lines without replacing such losses with an alternative source of revenue would adversely impact the Company's revenues, earnings and cash flow from operations. Some of our strategic products generate lower profit margins than our traditional services, and some can be expected to experience slowing growth as increasing numbers of our existing or potential customers subscribe to these newer products. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that the revenues generated from our new offerings will offset revenue losses from the reduced sales of our legacy products or that our new strategic offerings will be as successful as anticipated. 16Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company may be unable to grow our revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives we have implemented. We must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with cash on hand and funds available under our Corporate Credit Agreement and Receivables Facility, will be sufficient to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes, fund our pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay preferred dividends pursuant to our dividend policy. We have identified some potential areas of opportunity and implemented several growth initiatives, including increasing marketing promotions and related expenditures and launching new products and services with a focus on areas that are growing such as Fioptics and enterprise fiber-based service offerings. We cannot assure you that these opportunities will be successful or that these initiatives will improve our financial position or our results of operations.The Company's wireless subscribers are decreasing in number. If the Company continues to experience subscriber losses similar to the past several years, its revenues, earnings and cash flows from operation may be adversely affected. The Company's wireless telecommunications subsidiary, CBW, has experienced substantial subscriber losses over the past several years due to a number of factors, including competitors' investment in more technologically advanced LTE networks, which the Company does not have, and consumer preferences for national carriers and competitors' handsets. The Company expects these subscriber losses to continue into the foreseeable future. Failure to retain subscribers would adversely impact the Company's revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations. In addition, failure to retain subscribers may result in the inability to realize our investment in this business and would lead to impairment losses on long-lived and intangible assets in the future.Failure to anticipate the need for and introduce new products and services or to compete with new technologies may compromise the Company’s success in the telecommunications industry. The Company’s success depends, in part, on being able to anticipate the needs of current and future business, carrier, and residential customers. The Company seeks to meet these needs through new product introductions, service quality, and technological superiority. New products are not always available to the Company because other competitors may have exclusive agreements for those new products. New products and services are important to the Company’s success because its industry is technologically driven, such that new technologies can offer alternatives to the Company’s existing services. The development of new technologies and products could accelerate the Company’s loss of access lines and increase wireless customer churn, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company's failure to meet performance standards under its agreements could result in customers terminating their relationships with the Company or customers being entitled to receive financial compensation, which would lead to reduced revenues and/or increased costs. The Company's agreements with its customers contain various requirements regarding performance and levels of service. If the Company fails to provide the levels of service or performance required by its agreements, customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts and other financial compensation and also may be able to terminate their relationship with the Company. In order to provide these levels of services, the Company is required to protect against human error, natural disasters, equipment failure, power failure, sabotage and vandalism, and have disaster recovery plans available for disruption of services. The failure to address these or other events may result in a disruption of services. In addition, any inability to meet service level commitments or other performance standards could reduce the confidence of customers and could consequently impair the Company's ability to attract and retain customers, which would adversely affect both the Company's ability to generate revenues and operating results.The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving a limited geographic area. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving customers in the Greater Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio areas. An economic downturn or natural disaster occurring in this limited operating territory would have a disproportionate effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows compared to similar companies of a national scope and similar companies operating in different geographic areas.17Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.Natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war could cause damage to our infrastructure and result in significant disruptions to our operations. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, power outages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts and events beyond our control. Such events could cause significant damage to our infrastructure, resulting in degradation or disruption of service to our customers. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. These events could also damage the infrastructure of suppliers that provide us with the equipment and services we need to operate our business and provide products to our customers. A natural disaster or other event causing significant physical damage would cause us to experience substantial losses resulting in significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. In addition, these occurrences could result in lost revenues from business interruption as well as damage to our reputation. A large customer accounts for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues and accounts receivable. The loss or significant reduction in business from this customer would cause operating revenues to decline significantly and have a materially adverse long-term impact on the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had receivables with one large customer that exceeded 10% of the Company's outstanding accounts receivable balance. Contracts with this customer may not sufficiently reduce the inherent risk that the customer may terminate or fail to renew their relationships with the Company. As a result of customer concentration, the Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected if the Company lost this large customer or if services purchased were significantly reduced. If this customer were to default on its accounts receivable obligations, the Company would be exposed to potentially significant losses in excess of the provisions established. This would also negatively impact the available capacity under the Receivables Facility. The Company operates in highly competitive industries, and customers may not continue to purchase services, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. The telecommunications industry is very competitive, and the Company competes against larger, well-capitalized national providers. Competitors may reduce pricing, create new bundled offerings, or develop new technologies, products, or services. If the Company cannot continue to offer reliable, competitively priced, value-added services, or if the Company does not keep pace with technological advances, competitive forces could adversely affect it through a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue and profit margins. The Company has lost, and will likely continue to lose, access lines as a part of its customer base utilizes the services of competitive wireline or wireless providers.The Wireline segment faces competition from other local exchange carriers, wireless service providers, inter-exchange carriers, and cable, broadband, and internet service providers. Wireless providers, particularly those that provide unlimited wireless service plans with no additional fees for long distance, offer customers a substitution service for the Company’s access lines and long distance lines. The Company believes wireless substitution accounts for the largest portion of its access line losses. Also, cable competitors that have existing service relationships with CBT’s customers also offer substitution services, such as VoIP and long distance voice services in the Company's operating areas. Partially as a result of wireless substitution and increased competition, CBT’s access lines decreased by 8% and long distance subscribers decreased by 6% in 2013 compared to 2012. Our strategic products also face intense competition from cable operators, other telecom companies, and niche fiber companies. Many of our competitors have lower operating costs and access to resources that provide economies of scale allowing them to more aggressively price products, which they are able to provide on a much broader scale given their expanded geographic operations. Our competitors are expected to continuously upgrade their service quality and offerings, which could substantially erode the competitive advantage we currently have with our fiber-based products. These competitive factors could limit the Company's ability to grow revenue and cash flows despite the strategic initiatives implemented.18Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Fioptics suite of products also face competition from a number of different sources, including companies that deliver movies, television shows and other video programming over broadband Internet connections, such as Hulu.com, Apple Inc.’s “iTunes,” Amazon.com, Inc.’s “Prime,” Netflix Inc.’s “Watch Instantly” and YouTube. Increasingly, content owners are utilizing Internet-based delivery of content directly to consumers, some without charging a fee for access to the content. Furthermore, due to consumer electronics innovations, consumers are able to watch such Internet-delivered content on television sets and mobile devices. Increased customer migration to these non-traditional entertainment products could result in increased Fioptics churn and decreased penetration. If the Company is unable to effectively implement strategies to attract and retain Fioptics entertainment and high-speed internet subscribers, retain access lines and long distance subscribers, or replace such customers with other sources of revenue, the Company's Wireline business will be adversely affected.Wireless competitors to CBW include national wireless providers that have already deployed and are continuing with their build-out of more technologically advanced 4G LTE networks in our operating territory. In addition, our limited handset offerings are also a factor in our ability to attract and retain customers. Although we believe our handsets are technologically equivalent to those being offered by the national carriers, we only offer a limited selection of the premium brand-name handsets which are very popular with smartphone users. These competitive factors will likely result in a continued loss of wireless subscribers and adversely affect our wireless revenues and operating margins.The IT Services and Hardware segment competes against numerous other information technology consulting, web-hosting, and computer system integration companies, many of which are large in scope and well-financed. This market is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Other competitors may consolidate with larger companies or acquire software application vendors or technology providers, which may provide competitive advantages. The Company believes that many of the participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve significant scale to compete effectively. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that could impede our ability to compete successfully in the market.The competitive forces described above could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Maintaining the Company's telecommunications networks requires significant capital expenditures, and its inability or failure to maintain its telecommunications networks would have a material impact on its market share and ability to generate revenue. Over the past several years, the Company has improved its wireline network through increased capital expenditures for fiber optic cable in limited areas of its operating network and has also upgraded a portion of its wireless network to 4G, using HSPA+ technologies. In order to provide appropriate levels of service to the Company's customers, the network infrastructure must be protected against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage, or other intentional acts of vandalism. The Company's networks may not address all of the problems that may be encountered in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problems, which may result in disruption of service to customers. The Company may also incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated developments, regulatory changes, and other events that impact the business. The wireless industry continues to experience significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in network speeds. The majority of the national wireless providers have already deployed and are continuing with their build-out of more technologically advanced 4G LTE networks in our operating territory. LTE currently offers the fastest data transmission speeds in the industry, which is attractive to smartphone users. The Company has determined that it will not upgrade its network to LTE as it currently believes that this investment is not economically viable considering, among other factors, the significant capital requirement and the recent unfavorable trends of its wireless customer base. The Company's decision not to upgrade its network to LTE may result in the Company being unable to meet the needs of its customers, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's market share and its ability to generate revenue.If the Company is unable or fails to adequately maintain or expand its networks to meet customer needs, there would be a material adverse impact on the Company's market share and its ability to generate revenue.19Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.Increases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers. Video streaming services and peer-to-peer file sharing applications use significantly more bandwidth than traditional Internet activity such as web browsing and email. As utilization rates and availability of these services continue to grow, our high-speed Internet customers may use much more bandwidth than in the past. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity in order to avoid service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers. Alternatively, we may choose to implement network management practices to reduce the network capacity available to bandwidth-intensive activities during certain times in areas experiencing congestion, and these actions could negatively affect customer experience and increase customer churn. While we believe demand for these services may drive high-speed Internet customers to pay for faster broadband speeds, we may not be able to recover the costs of the necessary network investments. This would result in an adverse impact to our results of operations and financial condition.We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our networks. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. As such, we could be exposed to legal claims relating to content disseminated on our networks. Claims could challenge the accuracy of materials on our network or could involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy or copyright infringement. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results would be negatively affected. Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or other information technology security could have an adverse effect on our business. Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security may cause equipment failures or disruptions to our operations. Our inability to operate our wireline or wireless networks as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other communications providers. In addition, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Cyber attacks, which include the use of malware, computer viruses and other means for disruption or unauthorized access, have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. While, to date, we have not been subject to cyber attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial condition, the preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber attack in the future. The costs associated with a major cyber attack could include expensive incentives offered to existing customers and business partners to retain their business, increased expenditures on cyber security measures, lost revenues from business interruption, litigation and damage to our reputation. If we fail to prevent the theft of valuable information such as financial data, sensitive information about the Company and intellectual property, or if we fail to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or information technology security, it would result in damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact customer and investor confidence. Any of these occurrences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Maintenance of CBW’s wireless network and growth in data usage may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum and transmitting sites which may not be available or be available only on less than favorable terms.CBW uses spectrum licensed to the Company for its wireless network. Continued growth in data usage, may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum either to supplement or to replace the existing spectrum. Furthermore, the Company’s network depends on the deployment of radio frequency equipment on towers and on buildings. The Company leases substantially all the towers used in its wireless network operations, and the use of the towers under these leases is more restrictive than if these towers were owned by the Company. There can be no assurance that spectrum or the appropriate transmitting locations will be available to CBW or will be available on commercially favorable terms. Failure to obtain or retain any needed spectrum or transmitting locations could have a materially adverse impact on the wireless business as a whole, the quality of the wireless networks, and the ability to offer new competitive products and services.20Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The regulation of the Company’s businesses by federal and state authorities may, among other things, place the Company at a competitive disadvantage, restrict its ability to price its products and services, and threaten its operating licenses. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to regulatory oversight of varying degrees at both the state and federal levels, which may differ from the regulatory scrutiny faced by the Company’s competitors. A significant portion of CBT’s revenue is derived from pricing plans that require regulatory overview and approval. These regulated pricing plans limit the rates CBT charges for some services while its competition has typically been able to set rates for its services with limited restriction. In the future, regulatory initiatives that would put CBT at a competitive disadvantage or mandate lower rates for its services would result in lower profitability and cash flows for the Company. In addition, different regulatory interpretations of existing regulations or guidelines may affect the Company’s revenues and expenses in future periods. At the federal level, CBT is subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"), including the rules subsequently adopted by the FCC to implement the 1996 Act, which has impacted CBT’s in-territory local exchange operations in the form of greater competition. At the state level, CBT conducts local exchange operations in portions of Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana, and, consequently, is subject to regulation by the Public Utilities Commissions in those states. Various regulatory decisions or initiatives at the federal or state level may from time to time have a negative impact on CBT’s ability to compete in its markets. CBW’s FCC licenses to provide wireless services are subject to renewal and revocation. Although the FCC has routinely renewed wireless licenses in the past, the Company cannot be assured that challenges will not be brought against those licenses in the future. Revocation or non-renewal of CBW’s licenses could result in a cessation of CBW’s operations and consequently lower operating results and cash flows for the Company. Further, if CBW ceases offering wireless services, its wireless licenses could revert back to the FCC.From time to time, different regulatory agencies conduct audits to ensure that the Company is in compliance with the respective regulations. The Company could be subject to fines and penalties if found to be out of compliance with these regulations, and these fines and penalties could be material to the Company’s financial condition. There are currently many regulatory actions under way and being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding issues that could result in significant changes to the business conditions in the telecommunications industry. In addition, in connection with our Internet access offerings, we could become subject to laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the Internet. There is currently only limited regulation applicable to these services. As the significance of the Internet continues to grow, federal, state and local governments may pass laws and adopt rules and regulations or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet (including Internet access services), and related matters are under consideration in both federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies. We cannot provide any assurances that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative, or judicial initiatives relating to the telecommunications industry, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. A significant portion of our wireless subscriber base is enrolled under the FCC's low-income Lifeline program which imposes strict compliance requirements on both consumers and carriers. This could result in the Company incurring significant compliance costs or fines and penalties if the Company fails to comply with these requirements.The FCC's Lifeline program provides carriers like us with Universal Service Fund ("USF") support to reduce the cost of wireline and wireless services to low-income consumers. At December 31, 2013, approximately 35% of the Company's prepaid subscriber base was enrolled in the Lifeline program. The compliance requirements that govern the enrollment of low-income subscribers under this Lifeline program are stringent, and, in the event that consumers fail to meet any of these requirements, such consumers may opt to terminate their wireless services which could have a material adverse impact on the revenues that we generate. In addition, the Company could also incur significant costs to comply with these requirements or could incur material fines and penalties if the FCC determines that it did not adequately comply with such requirements. The occurrence of any of these factors would result in an adverse impact to our results of operations and financial condition.The Company depends on a number of third-party providers, and the loss of, or problems with, one or more of these providers may impede the Company's growth or cause it to lose customers. The Company depends on third-party providers to supply products and services. For example, many of the Company's information technology and call center functions are performed by third-party providers, and network equipment is purchased from and maintained by vendors. In addition, almost half of the wireless towers used by CBW are managed by a single independent service provider. Any failure on the part of suppliers to provide the contracted services, additional required services, or additional products could impede the Company's business and cause financial results to suffer. 21Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.A failure of back-office information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The efficient operation of the Company’s business depends on back-office information technology systems. The Company relies on back-office information technology systems to effectively manage customer billing, business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. A failure of the Company’s information technology systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt the Company’s business and result in a failure to collect accounts receivable, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing the Company’s reputation and results of operations to suffer. In addition, information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the Company’s control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements with its labor union when they expire or if its unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, the Company’s business and operating results could be materially harmed.The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with its labor union, which represents a significant number of its employees, and these collective bargaining agreements are set to expire in August 2014. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements when they expire. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with its union arise, or if its unionized workers engage in a strike or a work stoppage, the Company could experience a significant disruption of operations or incur higher ongoing labor costs, either of which would have a material adverse effect on the business.The loss of any of the senior management team or attrition among key sales associates could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company’s success will continue to depend to a significant extent on its senior management team and key sales associates. Senior management has specific knowledge relating to the Company and the industry that would be difficult to replace. The loss of key sales associates could hinder the Company’s ability to continue to benefit from long-standing relationships with customers. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to retain the current senior management team or key sales associates. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk Factors Related to Our Investment in CyrusOneThe Company no longer controls the operations of CyrusOneAs of January 24, 2013, CyrusOne is an independent public company which the Company does not control. As a result, the Company no longer sets the strategies, selects the management team, or controls the operations of CyrusOne. CyrusOne may choose to pursue strategies which conflict with our business strategies, and, if this were to occur, the CyrusOne Board is required to act for the benefit of its shareholders. The Company executed a non-compete agreement with CyrusOne under which both parties agreed not to enter each other's lines of business, subject to certain exceptions, for a period of four years. CyrusOne may choose to compete with us after the expiration of this non-compete agreement which could have an adverse effect on our telecommunications business. 22Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company has a significant investment in CyrusOneOn January 24, 2013, the Company completed the IPO of CyrusOne. As a result, the Company now holds 1,890,000 shares of common stock of CyrusOne and 42,586,835 partnership units of CyrusOne LP, the operating partnership. The Company's direct and indirect interests in CyrusOne represent a 69% effective economic ownership of CyrusOne, valued at $993.2 million as of December 31, 2013. Prior to the IPO of CyrusOne, there was no active market for CyrusOne's common stock. The value of our investment is subject to CyrusOne executing on their strategic plan and other factors beyond CyrusOne's control, such as stock market volatility and fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to CyrusOne, all of which could cause significant changes in the market price of CyrusOne's common stock. The fair value of our investment in CyrusOne may decline which may adversely affect the realization of our investment. In addition, the stock's float may not allow us to monetize our shares in a timely manner. As a result, we may be unable to monetize any or all of our investment in CyrusOne, which would therefore not allow us to repay debt and achieve a leverage ratio comparable to our peers thereby limiting our opportunity to significantly increase cash flow. Our inability to liquidate our investment in CyrusOne could ultimately limit the cash to fund operations and our general obligations and could result in the Company's dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. Refer to the CyrusOne 2013 form 10-K for additional risk disclosures specific to that entity. Other Risk FactorsThe trading price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, and the value of an investment in the Company's common stock may decline. The market price of the Company's common stock has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report and other factors beyond the Company's control, such as stock market volatility and fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to the Company.The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the Company's stock price and the market prices of equity securities of many other companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of the Company's stock. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have periodically been subject to securities class action litigation. The Company may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and/or damages and divert management's attention from other business concerns.The uncertain economic environment, including uncertainty in the U.S. and world securities markets, could impact the Company's business and financial condition.The uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and financial liquidity. The Company's primary source of cash is customer collections. If economic conditions were to worsen, some customers may cancel services or have difficulty paying. These conditions would result in lower revenues and increases in the allowance for doubtful accounts, which would negatively affect the results of operations. Furthermore, the sales cycle would be further lengthened if business customers slow spending or delay decision-making on the Company's products and services, which would adversely affect revenues. If competitors lower prices as a result of economic conditions, the Company would also experience pricing pressure. If the economies of the U.S. and the world deteriorate, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.The Company’s future cash flows would be adversely affected if it is unable to fully realize its deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had net deferred income taxes of $395.0 million, which are primarily composed of deferred tax assets associated with U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of $388.4 million and state, local and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $63.9 million. The Company has recorded valuation allowances against deferred tax assets related to certain state, local and foreign net operating losses and other deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the Company’s ability to utilize the assets within the statutory expiration period. The use of the Company’s deferred tax assets enables it to satisfy current and future tax liabilities without the use of the Company’s cash resources. If the Company is unable for any reason to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize its deferred tax assets, or if the use of its net operating loss carryforwards is limited by Internal Revenue Code Section 382 or similar state statute, the Company’s net income, shareowners’ deficit, and future cash flows would be adversely affected. 23Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with the Company’s employee benefit plans could negatively impact shareowners’ deficit and liquidity. The Company sponsors three noncontributory defined benefit pension plans: one for eligible management employees, one for non-management employees, and one supplemental, nonqualified, unfunded plan for certain former executives. The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets indirectly reflect the value of all plan assets and benefit obligations under these plans. The accounting for employee benefit plans is complex, as is the process of calculating the benefit obligations under the plans. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in the Company’s benefit obligations or a significant decrease of the asset values, without necessarily impacting the Company’s net income. In addition, the Company’s benefit obligations could increase significantly if it needs to unfavorably revise the assumptions used to calculate the obligations. These adverse changes could have a further significant negative impact on the Company’s shareowners’ deficit. In addition, with respect to the Company’s pension plans, the Company expects to make approximately $108 million of estimated cash contributions to its qualified pension plans for the years 2014 to 2021, of which $33 million is expected to be contributed in 2014. Additionally, the Company’s postretirement costs are adversely affected by increases in medical and prescription drug costs. Further, adverse changes to plan assets, or if medical and prescription drug costs increase significantly, the Company could be required to contribute additional material amounts of cash to the plan or could accelerate the timing of required payments. Third parties may claim that the Company is infringing upon their intellectual property, and the Company could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products. Although the Company does not believe that any of its products or services infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, the Company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology, products, or services. Any litigation growing out of third-party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the Company’s management and key personnel from its business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require the Company to enter into costly license agreements. Likewise, the Company may not be able to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms. The Company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of its products. Further, the Company often relies on licenses of third-party intellectual property for its businesses. The Company cannot ensure these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. We could be subject to a significant amount of litigation, which could require us to pay significant damages or settlements. Our business faces a substantial amount of litigation, including, from time to time, patent infringement lawsuits, antitrust class actions, wage and hour class actions, personal injury claims and lawsuits relating to our advertising, sales, billing and collection processes. In addition, our wireless business also faces personal injury and consumer class action lawsuits relating to alleged health effects of wireless phones or radio frequency transmitters, and class action lawsuits that challenge marketing practices and disclosures relating to alleged adverse effects of handheld wireless phones. We may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards and settlements. Third parties may infringe upon the Company’s intellectual property, and the Company may expend significant resources enforcing its rights or suffer competitive injury. The Company’s success depends in significant part on the competitive advantage it gains from its proprietary technology and other valuable intellectual property assets. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets protections, confidentiality provisions, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect its intellectual property rights. If the Company fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operating results. The Company may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police its intellectual property rights. The Company may not be able to detect third-party infringements and its competitive position may be harmed before the Company does so. In addition, competitors may design around the Company’s technology or develop competing technologies. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with the Company using that intellectual property. 24Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with, or potential violations of, environmental, health, and human safety laws. The Company’s operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, health, and human safety, including those governing the management and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and the cleanup of contamination, and the emission of radio frequency. While the Company believes its operations are in substantial compliance with environmental, health, and human safety laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of property, and in connection with the current and historical use of hazardous materials and other operations at its sites, the Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with or violations of such laws, the imposition of cleanup obligations, and third-party suits. For instance, a number of the Company’s sites formerly contained underground storage tanks for the storage of used oil and fuel for back-up generators and vehicles.25Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 