ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. The following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition or future results. If that occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. -10- RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMPANY AND HISTORY: We had a net loss in 2003, 2004 and 2005, and we do not anticipate we will be profitable in 2006 as we continue to develop our hydrogen technology. We incurred a net loss of approximately $8.8 million (a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $9.5 million) for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to a net loss of approximately $7.5 million (a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $7.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2004, and a net loss of approximately $4.6 million (a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $5.2 million) for the year ended December 31, 2003. We anticipate further losses for the year ended December 31, 2006 as we continue to develop the hydrogen generation technology for Hydrogen Power, Inc. There is also no assurance we will be profitable in the year ending December 31, 2006 or 2007. We presently have no operating business and therefore no significant sources of income unless and until Hydrogen Power, Inc. develops commercially viable products or we provide for other capital sources the nature of which could be detrimental to our current shareholders. With the sale by FastFunds and Chex of substantially all of their operating assets, we no longer have an operating business and therefore have no significant sources of revenue or income. While we provided $8 million to Hydrogen Power in connection with the recent acquisition, there can be no assurance those funds will provide enough working capital for HPI to develop and market one or more commercially viable products or services, nor that HPI will be able to develop commercially viable products or services at all. Should HPI be unable to develop commercially viable products or services as presently contemplated and in the absence of other future business opportunities which we may or may not develop, the lack of revenue generating operations would require us to find other sources of income to operate our business in the future. There is no guarantee we will be able to locate and successfully implement other sources of funds for our future operations, if necessary, or that if such funds are available the cost and nature of those funds will be on terms favorable to our current stockholders. We are subject to Sarbanes-Oxley and the reporting requirements of federal securities laws, which can be expensive. As a public reporting company, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as the information and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and other federal securities laws. The costs of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will add significant cost to our preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, and furnishing audited reports to stockholders. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SECURITIES: We have received a Staff Determination letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market informing us that our securities are subject to delisting as a result of the HPI acquisition. As a result, we may be unable to maintain our listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, which failure could limit the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock at prices and at times they believe appropriate. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Capital Market. On March 17, 2006, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination letter indicating that the Company fails to comply with certain requirements for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 4340(a) and that our securities are subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market. Under Marketplace Rule 4340(a), “an issuer must apply for initial inclusion following a transaction whereby the issuer combines with a non-Nasdaq entity, resulting in a change of control of the issuer and potentially allowing the non-Nasdaq entity to obtain a Nasdaq Listing”. The Nasdaq Staff Determination concluded that the Company’s recent acquisition of HPI is considered a “reverse merger” and the Company was required to submit an initial listing application and meet the initial listing criteria on The Nasdaq Capital Market in accordance with the referenced Marketplace Rule. -11- In anticipation of compliance with Rule 4340(a), we filed an initial listing application with The Nasdaq Stock Market on March 9, 2006, prior to closing our transaction with HPI. Additionally, pending Nasdaq’s review of the initial listing application, on March 23, 2006, we exercised our right to appeal the delisting of our securities by The Nasdaq Stock Market to a Listing Qualifications Panel pursuant to the procedures set forth in The Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4800 Series. Although we currently believe that we satisfy the Nasdaq requirements for initial listing, Nasdaq has significant discretion in the initial listing process and considers various subjective factors so there can be no assurance that our initial listing application will be approved or that our common stock will continue to be listed for trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market. In the past, we have received several letters from Nasdaq notifying us of failures to comply with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. Such letters were received in January 2005 and July 2004, and related to the failure of our common stock to maintain the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share that is required for continued listing. In each case, we ultimately regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. We can provide no assurance we will continue to meet all of the required continued listing requirements to remain on The Nasdaq Capital Market. If for any reason our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock would likely be quoted on either the electronic bulletin board or on the pink sheets. Securities quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin board and pink sheets are only rarely covered by securities analysts. In addition, these quotation and trading systems generally involve a slower flow of bid, ask and sales information and fewer market making broker-dealers, which factors typically result in lower prices for quoted securities. As a result, the delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Capital Stock Market would could make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares of our common stock at times and at prices they believe appropriate. The conversion of outstanding preferred stock and the exercise of options and warrants, at prices below the market price of our common stock could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. On August 25, 2005, we issued 3,055 shares of Series K preferred stock in exchange for all of our previously outstanding Series G preferred stock and Series I preferred stock (for which there were approximately $3,055,000 in redemption value plus unpaid dividends). As of March 31, 2006, 711 shares of our Series K preferred stock had been converted into 260,631 shares of our common stock leaving 2,344 shares of Series K preferred stock outstanding. The conversion of our outstanding preferred stock into a maximum of 932,669 shares of our common stock based on the 20% limitation, and the exercise of options and warrants into a maximum of 8,896,400 shares of our common stock at the currently applicable weighted-average exercise price of approximately $4.76 per common share, may be below the market price of our common stock at the time such securities are exercised and converted. Depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the conversion or exercise of these convertible securities, any issuance of common stock upon conversion or exercise at then-below-market prices may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders may experience significant dilution upon the conversion of our outstanding preferred stock. Series K Preferred Stock Our common stockholders may experience dilution from the conversion of our Series K preferred stock into a maximum of 932,669 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 8.4% of our currently outstanding common stock. The conversion price of our Series K preferred stock is the lesser of $2.75 or 65% of the market price of our common stock for the five trading days prior to conversion, subject to certain adjustments. This conversion feature allows holders of the preferred stock to purchase an increasing number of common shares as a result of decreasing market prices of our common stock. Nevertheless, the terms of our certificate of designation for Series K preferred stock and applicable Nasdaq Stock Market Marketplace Rules prevent us from issuing more than 1,368,300 shares of our common stock upon conversion of our Series K preferred stock without stockholder approval. -12- Since we cannot know the conversion price of the Series K preferred stock until notice of conversion has been provided by a holder, we cannot currently determine how many shares of common stock we will actually issue upon conversion of the preferred stock. The following table sets forth, for illustrative purposes only, the effect of increasing and decreasing stock prices on the conversion price per share and number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Series K preferred stock, based on the closing market price of our common stock ($4.70) on March 31, 2006. Price per share of common stock Conversion price of Series K preferred stock (1) Aggregate number of shares of common stock convertible from all Series K preferred stock (2) (3) Percentage of outstanding common stock (3) (4) $4.70 $2.75 852,364 7.64% $3.53 (5) $2.29 932,669 8.4% $2.35 (6) $1.53 932,669 8.4% $5.88 (7) $2.75 852,364 7.64% $7.05 (8) $2.75 852,364 7.64% (1) The conversion price is 65% of the market price of our common stock if the market price per share is less than $5.50, and 75% of the market price of our common stock if the market price is more than $5.50 for 20 consecutive trading days (and certain other conditions related to trading volume are met), provided, however, that the conversion price cannot be higher than $2.75 per share. (2) Based on 2,344 shares of Series K preferred stock currently outstanding, having an aggregate stated value of $2,344,000. (3) The certificate of designation for the Series K preferred stock and applicable Nasdaq Stock Market Marketplace Rules prevent us from issuing more than 1,368,300 shares of our common stock upon conversion of our Series K preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. (4) Based upon 11,152,653 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 31, 2006. (5) Reflects a 25% reduction from the average closing price of $4.70. (6) Reflects a 50% reduction from the average closing price of $4.70. (7) Reflects a 25% increase from the average closing price of $4.70. (8) Reflects a 50% increase from the average closing price of $4.70. Series L Preferred Stock As part of our acquisition of HPI, we issued to the stockholders of HPI 300,000 shares of Series L Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”). The Preferred Stock is convertible into common stock of the Registrant in three tranches of 100,000 shares each (referred to as the L-1, L-2 and L-3 Preferred Stock, respectively), on the 180th, 270th and 360th day following closing of the merger, respectively; each tranche shall be convertible into 40% of the Registrant’s common stock outstanding on the respective date of conversion. The conversion of the Preferred Stock will be subject to the achievement by HPI of certain performance benchmarks as defined in the Certificate of Designation of Series L Preferred Stock, including HPI’s use of its hydrogen technology to develop prototype generators, with marketable value, for various micro and portable power applications and for various macro power applications such as fuel cells and internal combustion engines. The successful achievement of these benchmarks, and thus the conversion of the Preferred Stock, shall be determined by Equitex in its sole discretion. In the event all three series of Series L Preferred Stock are converted into Equitex common stock, the former stockholders of HPI would own approximately 73% of Equitex’s common stock on a post-transaction basis (assuming that Equitex does not, prior to the conversion of the L-3 Preferred Stock, issue any additional shares of common stock other than pursuant to conversion of the Series L Preferred -13- Stock). As a result, our current stockholders would experience substantial dilution if all shares of Series L Preferred Stock are converted. The securityholders of Hydrogen Power generally, and its former majority stockholder specifically, will be able to exert significant control over our Company. Assuming the conversion of all of the Series L Preferred Stock, the former securityholders of Hydrogen Power would hold approximately 73% of our outstanding common stock on a post-transaction basis. Additionally, GHTI, Hydrogen Power’s former majority stockholder, would beneficially own approximately 62% of our outstanding common stock on a post-transaction basis, and would thus have significant influence over the management of our business, the election of directors and all matters requiring stockholder approval. A substantial number of shares will be eligible for future sale by the Hydrogen Power shareholders and the sale of those shares could adversely affect our stock price. As part of the acquisition agreement with Hydrogen Power, we have agreed to register for sale all of the shares of common stock being issued as a result of the acquisition. Once that registration statement becomes effective, all of the shares of common stock issued in the Hydrogen Power transaction will become eligible for immediate public sale, which could adversely affect the public market for our common stock should a significant portion of these shares be offered for sale at any given time. This could cause a significant decline in the market price for our common stock and therefore affect the value of any of our securities. RISKS RELATED TO THE BUSINESS OF OUR MAJORITY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY FASTFUNDS FINANCIAL CORPORATION: FastFunds has no significant operating business. In January 2006, FastFunds sold substantially all of its operating business, owned by Chex, to Game Financial Corporation and therefore currently has no significant operating business. FastFunds’ balance sheet contains certain notes payable, which are subject to repayment on 90 days’ demand. Chex previously relied on debenture notes issued to private investors to operate its business and to fund its growth. As of December 31, 2005, Chex had debenture notes payable in the aggregate amount of approximately $11,301,497. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, Chex repaid approximately $6.5 million of these notes from the proceeds received from the Asset Sale. Additionally, on March 1, 2006, Chex cancelled approximately $4.3 million of the notes and they have been reissued by FastFunds with a one-year term. The remaining Chex debenture notes have a one-year term, but are cancelable (and thereby subject to repayment) by either party with 90 days notice. Chex is a guarantor of certain debt of Equitex, and the Company’s entire investment in Chex (i.e., its ownership of all outstanding Chex Services, Inc. stock) is subject to a security interest securing such obligation. Furthermore, all of the assets of Chex are subject to a security interest for the same debt. In March 2004, Equitex (then the parent company of Chex) closed on $5 million of debt financing and issued convertible promissory notes in that principal amount to two financial institutions. The proceeds from the promissory notes were immediately thereafter loaned to Chex. These promissory notes carry a stated interest rate of 7% per annum and have a 45-month term. From April 2004 through June 2004 only interest payments were due. Beginning in July 2004, principal and interest payments began to amortize over the remaining 42-month period. The promissory notes are collateralized, among other things, by all of the assets of Chex, and by the FastFunds common stock owned by Equitex. In conjunction with the Asset Sale, the holders of the promissory notes consented to the sale of assets that secured their notes. -14- Accordingly, if Equitex defaults on the obligations specified under the promissory notes, and if Chex cannot cure such defaults, FastFunds’ remaining assets could be lost. FastFunds’ balance sheet contains certain promissory notes receivable and advances, which we cannot assure to be collectible. Included among FastFunds’ balance sheet as of December 31, 2005, are promissory notes, advances and interest receivable whose carrying value aggregate to $7,334,551. Among these notes are various promissory notes and advances due from affiliates of FastFunds and/or Equitex, including $4,480,489 due from Equitex; $1,104,360 due from Denaris Corporation (a majority-owned subsidiary of Equitex); $485,936 receivable from a former officer of Chex; $205,000 receivable from Equitex 2000, Inc., an affiliate of Equitex; and $25,461 receivable from various Company employees and a consultant of Chex. Interest receivable on all of these notes and advances is $983,305. Although FastFunds believes all of the notes will be collected, there can be no assurance that FastFunds will be able to collect any of these amounts. In March 2006 Equitex agreed to issue 1,200,000 shares of its common stock for settlement of the unpaid amounts due from Equitex and Denaris, including accrued interest. Anti-dilution protections in favor of pre-merger stockholders of FastFunds and certain lenders who received convertible promissory notes in connection with the FastFunds merger may further substantially dilute Equitex’s percentage ownership in the FastFunds’ equity. In the definitive merger agreement entered into in connection with the merger between Chex Services and Seven Ventures, Inc., FastFunds agreed to issue additional shares of its common stock to (a) pre-merger stockholders of FastFunds and (b) holders of certain convertible promissory notes (but only to the extent that such promissory notes become convertible in accordance with their terms), in the event that FastFunds issues common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock, the proceeds of which are used to satisfy debt owed by Equitex and guaranteed by Chex (discussed above). If such issuances occur, the dilutive effect upon FastFunds’ stockholders would likely be substantial and material. There are currently outstanding securities convertible into or exchangeable for an aggregate of 4,807,064 shares of FastFunds Common Stock which, if converted or exchanged, will substantially dilute FastFunds’ existing stockholders. FastFunds currently has outstanding notes and securities convertible into or exchangeable for an aggregate of 4,807,064 shares of common stock under certain conditions. In addition, the effective conversion and exercise prices of such securities are significantly lower than the current market value of FastFunds’ common stock. If these securities are converted into or exchanged for common stock, their issuance would have a substantial dilutive effect on the percentage ownership of FastFunds’ current stockholders. These securities consist of: (i) $200,000 in convertible promissory notes entered into in connection with the merger with certain lenders, which are convertible into an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares of common stock; (ii) outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 523,000 shares of FastFunds common stock at a purchase price of $0.10 per share, which were originally issued to Equitex in connection with the merger; (iii) options to purchase 385,000 shares of FastFunds common stock at $1.10 per share; and (iv) warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,899,064 shares of FastFunds common stock at a weighted average purchase price of $1.98 per share. Equitex, Inc. is a controlling stockholder of FastFunds and is able to effectively control FastFunds’ management and operations. Currently, Equitex owns 12,417,344 shares of FastFunds outstanding common stock, representing approximately 81% of the voting power of FastFunds’ outstanding securities. This means that Equitex beneficially owns, together with FastFunds’ directors, executive officers and a former executive officer affiliated with Equitex, approximately 88% of the voting power of FastFunds’ outstanding securities. As a result, Equitex, both alone or together with FastFunds’ directors and executive officers, has the ability to control FastFunds’ management and affairs through the election and removal of the entire board of -15- directors and will control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the future merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to FastFunds’ stockholders. As a result, the return on investment in FastFunds’ common stock through the market price of the common stock or ultimate sale of FastFunds’ business could be adversely affected. FastFunds’ Common Stock trades only in an illiquid trading market, which generally results in lower prices for FastFunds’ Common Stock. Trading of FastFunds’ common stock is conducted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. This has an adverse effect on the liquidity of the common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and the lack of security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of FastFunds and its common stock. This may result in lower prices for the common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. FastFunds has not paid dividends to date, and has no intention of paying dividends to stockholders. To date, FastFunds has not paid any cash dividends and does not anticipate the payment of cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the only return on an investment in FastFunds’ common stock, if any, may occur upon a subsequent sale of the shares of common stock. RISKS RELATED TO THE BUSINESS OF OUR MAJORITY-OWNED SUBSIDIARY HYDROGEN POWER, INC. Hydrogen Power has a limited operating history on which to evaluate its business and currently possesses unproven hydrogen generation technology. Hydrogen Power is a development stage company that has only completed research and development on its unproven hydrogen power generation technology. Hydrogen Power’s business plan is subject to significant further product development and there is a lack of meaningful historical financial data that makes it difficult to evaluate its prospects. To the extent that Hydrogen Power is able to implement its business plan, its business will be subject to all of the problems that typically affect a business with a limited operating history, such as unanticipated expenses, capital shortfalls, delays in technology development and possible cost overruns. In addition, its hydrogen generation system is an innovative product that has not yet been proven on a commercial scale or introduced to the market on a wide scale. Hydrogen Power may not be able to achieve commercialization of its products on the timetable it anticipates, or at all. Hydrogen Power cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop commercially viable hydrogen power generation products on the timetable it anticipates, or at all. The commercialization of hydrogen power generation products require substantial technological advances to improve the efficiency, functionality, durability, reliability, cost and performance of these products and to develop commercial volume manufacturing processes for these products. We cannot guarantee that Hydrogen Power will be able to internally develop the technology necessary for commercialization of its hydrogen power generation products, or that it will be able to acquire or license any required technology from third parties. Developing the technology for high-volume commercialization requires substantial capital, and we cannot assure you that Hydrogen Power will be able to generate or secure sufficient funding on acceptable terms to pursue commercialization plans. In addition, before any product can be released to market, it must be subjected to numerous field tests. These field tests may encounter problems and delays for a number of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If these field tests reveal technical defects or reveal that Hydrogen Power’s potential products do not meet performance goals, including useful life, reliability, and durability, its commercialization schedule could be delayed, and potential purchasers may decline to purchase future systems and products. -16- Hydrogen Power may become subject to product liability lawsuits which could result in significant expense, adversely affecting its resources and the development or sales of future products thereby delaying the commercialization of those products. The commercialization of Hydrogen Power’s hydrogen power generation systems also depend upon its ability to significantly reduce the costs of these systems and products. We cannot assure you that it will be able to sufficiently reduce the cost of these products without reducing its performance, reliability and durability, which would adversely affect consumers’ willingness to buy future products. Hydrogen Power has no operating revenue to date and a history of losses. It may be unable to generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. As a development stage company, Hydrogen Power has experienced operating losses for each quarterly and annual period since its inception in December 2003. It experienced net losses of approximately $2.5 million (unaudited) for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $766,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. As of September 30, 2005, Hydrogen Power had an unaudited accumulated deficit of approximately $3.9 million. Hydrogen Power expects its losses and cash expenditures to continue over the next several years as it works to develop commercially viable products based on its hydrogen generation technology. We cannot assure you that Hydrogen Power will be able to successfully execute its business plan. The execution of Hydrogen Power’s business plan poses many challenges and is based on a number of assumptions. We cannot assure you that it will be able to successfully execute its business plan. Narrowing the scope of its development activities may not accelerate product commercialization. If Hydrogen Power experiences significant cost overruns on any of its product development programs, or if its business plan is more costly than anticipated, certain research and development activities may be delayed or eliminated, resulting in changes or delays to its commercialization plans. Hydrogen Power’s failure to obtain necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on its business plan and hinder or delay product development. In order to develop a product or products utilizing Hydrogen Power’s hydrogen power generation technology, Hydrogen Power will require substantial additional financing. This financing would likely include equity or debt financing which would likely cause substantial dilution to our current stockholders. We may not be able to obtain such additional equity or debt financing when Hydrogen Power needs it or at all. Even if such financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy Hydrogen Power’s requirements. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future, Hydrogen Power may be unable to develop any commercially viable hydrogen generation product, further protect its intellectual property sufficiently, meet customer demand for any products that may be developed or withstand adverse operating results should successful product development occur. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when required, Hydrogen Power’s continued operations may have to be scaled down or even ceased and any ability to generate future revenues would be negatively affected. Potential fluctuations in our financial and business results makes forecasting difficult and may restrict our access to funding for our commercialization plan. We expect Hydrogen Power’s operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, quarter to quarter comparisons of these operating results are not meaningful. Due to Hydrogen Power’s stage of development, it is difficult to predict potential future revenues or results of operations accurately. It is likely that in one or more future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts. In addition, investors or security analysts may misunderstand our business decisions or have expectations that are inconsistent with Hydrogen Power’s business plan. This may result in our business activities not meeting its expectations. Not meeting investor or security analyst expectations may materially and adversely impact the trading price of our common shares, and increase -17- the cost and restrict our ability to secure required funding to pursue our commercialization plans. A mass market for our products may never develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate. Hydrogen Power’s hydrogen power generation systems represent emerging markets, and we do not know whether end-users will want to use them. The development of a mass market for its hydrogen power generation technology may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond its control, including the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products, the future cost of raw materials used by its systems, regulatory requirements, consumer perceptions of the safety of any developed products and related fuels, and consumer reluctance to buy a new product. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, Hydrogen Power may be unable to recover the losses it will have incurred in the development of potential products and may never achieve profitability. In addition, we cannot guarantee that Hydrogen Power will be able to develop, manufacture or market any products if sales levels do not support the continuation of those products. Regulatory changes could hurt the market for our products. Changes in existing government regulations and the emergence of new regulations with respect to hydrogen generation systems may hurt the market for any developed products. Environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. (particularly in California) and other countries have driven interest in vehicular alternate energy systems. We cannot guarantee that these laws and policies will not change. Changes in these laws and other laws and policies or the failure of these laws and policies to become more widespread could result in consumers abandoning their interest in hydrogen generation systems in favor of alternative technologies. In addition, as alternative energy products are introduced into the market, the U.S. and other governments may impose burdensome requirements and restrictions on the use of these technologies that could reduce or eliminate demand for some or all of Hydrogen Powers potential products. If Hydrogen Power fails to protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use its technology, which could weaken its competitive position, eliminate the potential for future revenue and increase costs. We believe that Hydrogen Power’s long-term success will depend to a large degree on its ability to protect the proprietary technology that it has licensed or acquired or may develop or acquire in the future. Although Hydrogen Power intends to aggressively pursue anyone it reasonably believes is infringing upon its intellectual property rights, initiating and maintaining suits against third parties that may infringe upon those intellectual property rights will require substantial financial resources. Hydrogen Power may not have the financial resources to bring such suits and if it does bring such suits, it may not prevail. Regardless of Hydrogen Power’s success in any such actions, it could incur significant expenses in connection with such suits. Failure to protect Hydrogen Power’s existing intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business and prospects because we believe that developing new systems and products that are unique to Hydrogen Power is critical to its success. It relies on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect its intellectual property. However, some of Hydrogen Power’s intellectual property may not be covered by any patent or patent application, and the patents that Hydrogen Power has licensed will eventually expire. We cannot assure that Hydrogen Power’s present or future issued patents will protect its technology. Moreover, Hydrogen Power’s patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, there is no assurance that: · any of the patents licensed by Hydrogen Power will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable, or licensed to others; or · any potential future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage sought -18- by Hydrogen Power, if issued at all. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. Hydrogen Power may also seek to protect its proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with strategic partners and employees. We can provide no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that Hydrogen Power will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Certain of Hydrogen Power’s intellectual property has been licensed on an exclusive basis, within certain geographical limitations, from third parties who may also license such intellectual property to others, including competitors. If necessary or desirable, Hydrogen Power may seek further licenses under the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, we can give no assurances that Hydrogen Power will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to them. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for intellectual property Hydrogen Power uses could cause them to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the development, manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the use of such intellectual property. Hydrogen Power may be involved in intellectual property litigation that causes them to incur significant expenses or prevents them from selling any developed products. Hydrogen Power may become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that it has infringed the intellectual property rights of others or commence lawsuits against others who it believes are infringing upon its rights. Involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, adversely affecting the development of the challenged product or intellectual property and diverting the efforts of Hydrogen Power’s technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in its favor. In the event of an adverse outcome as a defendant in any such litigation, Hydrogen Power may, among other things, be required to: · pay substantial damages; · cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of any developed products that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; · expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; · discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or · obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We can provide no assurance that Hydrogen Power would be successful in such development or acquisition or that such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on Hydrogen Power’s business and financial results. Hydrogen Power currently faces and will continue to face significant competition. As alternative energy technologies including hydrogen power generation technologies have the potential to replace existing power products, competition for those products will come from current power technologies, from improvements to current power technologies and from new alternative power technologies, including other types of alternative energy technologies. Each of Hydrogen Power’s target markets is currently serviced by existing manufacturers with existing customers and suppliers. These manufacturers use proven and widely accepted technologies such as internal combustions engines and -19- turbines as well as coal, oil and nuclear powered generators. Additionally, there are competitors working on developing technologies other than hydrogen power generation systems (such as fuel cells, advanced batteries and hybrid battery/ICEs) in each of Hydrogen Power’s targeted markets. Some of these technologies are as capable of fulfilling existing and proposed regulatory requirements as hydrogen power technology. There are many different individuals, institutions and companies across the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan, including corporations, national laboratories and universities that are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of alternative energy technologies including hydrogen generation technologies. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in any of our future target markets. Many of these competitors have substantial financial resources, customer bases, strategic alliances, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, and businesses or other resources which give them significant competitive advantages over Hydrogen Power. The loss of the services of HPI’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President or other key employees, or the failure to attract additional key individuals, would materially adversely affect our business. Hydrogen Power’s success depends on the continued services of Ms. Ricky Gujral, who serves as President of Hydrogen Power. In addition, Hydrogen Power’s success depends in large part on its ability in the future to attract and retain key management, engineering, scientific, manufacturing and operating personnel. Recruiting personnel for the hydrogen power industries is highly competitive. We cannot guarantee that Hydrogen Power will be able to attract and retain qualified executive, managerial and technical personnel needed for the development of potential products business. Hydrogen Power’s failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on its business. Hydrogen products use inherently dangerous, flammable fuels, which could subject Hydrogen Power’s business to product liability claims. Hydrogen Power’s technology exposes them to potential product liability claims that are inherent in hydrogen and products that use hydrogen. Hydrogen is a flammable gas and therefore a potentially dangerous product. Any accidents involving Hydrogen Power’s technology or future products or other hydrogen-based products could materially impede widespread market acceptance and demand for hydrogen energy products. In addition, Hydrogen Power may be held responsible for damages beyond the scope any insurance coverage. We also cannot predict whether Hydrogen Power will be able to maintain any necessary insurance coverage on acceptable terms. EMPLOYEES Equitex currently employs four full-time employees. Chex employs 8 full-time employees at its corporate office and 1 employee in a home office. HPI employs 12 full-time and part-time employees at its research facilities in Seattle, Washington. FastFunds, Denaris, Key Financial Systems and Nova currently have no employees. (d) Financial information about geographic areas. FastFunds International, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of our majority-owned subsidiary FastFunds Financial Corporation, with operations principally based in London, has long-lived assets of $158,914 as of December 31, 2004, consisting primarily of computer hardware and software. During 2005, FastFunds ceased its international activity and disposed of all of the assets. -20- ITEM 