Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s substantial debt could limit its ability to fund operations, raise additional capital, and have a material adverse effect on its ability to fulfill its obligations and on its businesses and prospects generally. The Company has a substantial amount of debt and has significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness of $2,533.6 million, on which it incurred $215.0 million of interest expense in 2011, and had total shareowners’ deficit of $715.2 million. In addition, at December 31, 2011, the Company had the ability to borrow additional amounts under its revolving credit facility of $210.0 million and $79.6 million under its accounts receivable facility, subject to compliance with certain conditions. The Company may incur additional debt from time to time, subject to the restrictions contained in its credit facilities and other debt instruments. The Company’s substantial debt could have important consequences, including the following: • the Company will be required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements;• the Company’s interest rate on its revolving credit facility depends on the level of the Company’s specified financial ratios, and therefore could increase if the Company’s specified financial ratios require a higher rate;• the Company’s substantial debt will increase its vulnerability to adverse changes in the credit markets which could result in an increase in the Company's borrowing costs and may limit the availability of financing;• the Company’s debt service obligations could limit its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates;• the Company’s level of debt and shareowners’ deficit may restrict it from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, and other general corporate requirements; and• the Company’s debt instruments require maintenance of specified financial ratios and other restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, could limit availability to the cash required to fund operations and general obligations and could result in the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization.The Company’s creditors and preferred stockholders have claims that are superior to claims of the holders of the Company's common stock. Accordingly, in the event of the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization, payment is first made on the claims of creditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, then preferred stockholders, and finally, if amounts are available, to holders of the Company's common stock. The credit facilities and other indebtedness impose significant restrictions on the Company. The Company’s debt instruments impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on the Company. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, the Company’s ability to: • incur additional indebtedness;• create liens;• make investments;• enter into transactions with affiliates;• sell assets;• guarantee indebtedness;• declare or pay dividends or other distributions to shareholders;• repurchase equity interests;• redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to such indebtedness;• enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries;• issue or sell capital stock of certain of its subsidiaries; and• consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of its assets and the assets of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.13Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.In addition, the Company’s credit facilities and debt instruments include restrictive covenants that may materially limit the Company’s ability to prepay debt and preferred stock. The agreements governing the credit facilities also require the Company to achieve and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. The restrictions contained in the terms of the credit facilities and its other debt instruments could: • limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict the Company’s activities or business plans; and• adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, or other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be in its interest.A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the Company’s inability to comply with the required financial ratios would result in a default under some or all of the debt agreements. During the occurrence and continuance of a default, lenders may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Additionally, under the credit facilities, the lenders may elect not to provide loans until such default is cured or waived. The Company’s debt instruments also contain cross-acceleration provisions, which generally cause each instrument to be subject to early repayment of outstanding principal and related interest upon a qualifying acceleration of any other debt instrument. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, could limit the cash required to fund operations and its general obligations, and could result in the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. The Company depends on its revolving credit facility and accounts receivable facility to provide for its financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations. The Company depends on its revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility ("Receivables Facility") to provide for temporary financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under its revolving credit facility, leaving $210.0 million in additional borrowing availability. The revolving credit facility is funded by 11 different financial institutions, with no financial institution having more than 15% of the total facility. If one or more of these banks is not able to fulfill its funding obligations, the Company’s financial condition could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had a borrowing availability under its Receivables Facility of $102.8 million and a maximum borrowing limit of $105.0 million. The available borrowing capacity is calculated monthly based on the quantity and quality of outstanding accounts receivable and thus may be lower than the maximum borrowing limit. If the quality of the Company’s accounts receivables deteriorates, this will negatively impact the available capacity under this facility. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $23.2 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Receivables Facility, leaving an unused borrowing availability of $79.6 million.In addition, the Company’s ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility and accounts receivable facility is subject to the Company’s compliance with covenants, including covenants requiring compliance with specified financial ratios. Failure to satisfy these covenants would constrain or prohibit its ability to borrow under these facilities. The servicing of the Company’s indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and its ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company cannot provide assurance that its business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, additional sources of debt financing will be available, or future borrowings will be available under its credit or receivables facilities, in each case, in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If the Company cannot service its indebtedness, it will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, or selling assets, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital, which may adversely affect its shareholders, debt holders, and customers. The Company may not be able to negotiate remedies on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. The Company’s inability to generate the necessary cash flows could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. 14Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company depends on the receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from its subsidiaries. Virtually all of the Company's operations are conducted through its subsidiaries, and most of the Company's debt is held at the parent company. Certain of the Company’s material subsidiaries are subject to regulatory authority that may potentially limit the ability of such subsidiary to distribute funds or assets. If the Company’s subsidiaries were to be prohibited from paying dividends or making distributions to the parent company, it may not be able to make the scheduled interest and principal repayments on its debt. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and the trading price of the Company's common stock, preferred stock, and debt instruments, which could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. The trading price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, and the value of an investment in the Company's common stock may decline. The market price of the Company's common stock has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report and other factors beyond the Company's control, such as stock market volatility and fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to the Company.The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the Company's stock price and the market prices of equity securities of many other companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of the Company's stock. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have periodically been subject to securities class action litigation. The Company may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and/or damages and divert management's attention from other business concerns.The Company’s access lines, which generate a significant portion of its cash flows and profits, are decreasing in number. If the Company continues to experience access line losses similar to the past several years, its revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations may be adversely impacted. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenues by delivering voice and data services over access lines. The Company's local telecommunications subsidiary, CBT, has experienced substantial access line losses over the past several years due to a number of factors, including increased competition and wireless and broadband substitution. The Company expects access line losses to continue for an unforeseen period of time. Failure to retain access lines without replacing such losses with an alternative source of revenue could adversely impact the Company’s revenues, earnings and cash flow from operations. The Company operates in highly competitive industries, and its customers may not continue to purchase services, which could result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. The telecommunications industry is very competitive, and the Company competes against many larger and better-funded national providers. Competitors may reduce pricing, create new bundled offerings, or develop new technologies, products, or services. If the Company cannot continue to offer reliable, competitively priced, value-added services, or if the Company does not keep pace with technological advances, competitive forces could adversely affect it through a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue and profit margins. CBT has lost, and will likely continue to lose, access lines as a part of its customer base utilizes the services of competitive wireline or wireless providers in lieu of the CBT’s local wireline service. The Wireline segment faces competition from other local exchange carriers, wireless service providers, inter-exchange carriers, and cable, broadband, and internet service providers. Wireless providers, particularly those that provide unlimited wireless service plans with no additional fees for long distance, offer customers a substitution service for the Company’s access lines. The Company believes this is the reason for the largest portion of the Company’s access line losses. Also, cable competitors that have existing service relationships with CBT’s customers also offer substitution services, such as VoIP and long distance voice services in the Company's operating areas. Partially as a result of wireless substitution and increased competition, CBT’s access lines decreased by 8% and long distance subscribers decreased by 7% in 2011 compared to 2010. In addition, the high-speed internet market is saturated in CBT’s operating area, and competition will continue to be fierce for market share against competitors and alternative services. If the Company is unable to effectively implement strategies to retain access lines and long distance subscribers, or replace such access line loss with other sources of revenue, the Company’s Wireline business will be adversely affected. Wireless competitors to the Company's subsidiary, Cincinnati Bell Wireless LLC ("CBW"), include national wireless service providers such as Verizon, AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile, Leap and TracFone. The Company anticipates that continued competition could compress its margins for wireless products and services as carriers continue to offer more voice minutes and 15Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.data usage for equivalent or lower service fees. The wireless industry continues to experience rapid and significant technological changes and a dramatic increase in usage, particularly demand for and usage of data and other non-voice services. Increased network capacity could be required to meet increased customer demand. Should the resources required to fund the necessary network enhancements not be available, and CBW is unable to maintain its network quality level, then the Company’s ability to attract and retain customers, and therefore maintain and improve its operating margins, could be materially adversely affected. Many competitors offer very advanced and popular handsets which are not available to CBW and are a factor in attracting and retaining customers. CBW’s ability to compete will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. The Data Center Colocation and IT Services and Hardware segments compete against numerous other data center colocation, information technology consulting, web-hosting, and computer system integration companies, many of which are large in scope and well-financed. This market is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Other competitors may consolidate with larger companies or acquire software application vendors or technology providers, enabling them to more effectively compete with the Data Center Colocation and IT Services and Hardware segments. The Company believes that many of the participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve significant scale to compete effectively. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that could impede the ability of these segments to compete successfully in the market. The competitive forces described above could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving a limited geographic area. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving customers in the Greater Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio areas for its Wireline, Wireless and IT Services and Hardware segments. In addition, most of its Data Center Colocation operations are located within Ohio and Texas. An economic downturn or natural disaster occurring in this limited operating territory could have a disproportionate effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows compared to similar companies of a national scope and similar companies operating in different geographic areas. The regulation of the Company’s businesses by federal and state authorities may, among other things, place the Company at a competitive disadvantage, restrict its ability to price its products and services, and threaten its operating licenses. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to regulatory oversight of varying degrees at both the state and federal levels, which may differ from the regulatory scrutiny faced by the Company’s competitors. A significant portion of CBT’s revenue is derived from pricing plans that require regulatory overview and approval. These regulated pricing plans limit the rates CBT charges for some services while its competition has typically been able to set rates for its services with limited restriction. In the future, regulatory initiatives that would put CBT at a competitive disadvantage or mandate lower rates for its services could result in lower profitability and cash flows for the Company. In addition, different regulatory interpretations of existing regulations or guidelines may affect the Company’s revenues and expenses in future periods. At the federal level, CBT is subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"), including the rules subsequently adopted by the FCC to implement the 1996 Act, which has impacted CBT’s in-territory local exchange operations in the form of greater competition. At the state level, CBT conducts local exchange operations in portions of Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana, and, consequently, is subject to regulation by the Public Utilities Commissions in those states. Various regulatory decisions or initiatives at the federal or state level may from time to time have a negative impact on CBT’s ability to compete in its markets. CBW’s FCC licenses to provide wireless services are subject to renewal and revocation. Although the FCC has routinely renewed wireless licenses in the past, the Company cannot be assured that challenges will not be brought against those licenses in the future. Revocation or non-renewal of CBW’s licenses could result in a cessation of CBW’s operations and consequently lower operating results and cash flows for the Company. From time to time, different regulatory agencies conduct audits to ensure that the Company is in compliance with the respective regulations. The Company could be subject to fines and penalties if found to be out of compliance with these regulations, and these fines and penalties could be material to the Company’s financial condition. There are currently many regulatory actions under way and being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding issues that could result in significant changes to the business conditions in the telecommunications industry. Assurances cannot be given that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative, or judicial initiatives relating to the telecommunications industry, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 16Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.Maintaining the Company’s telecommunications networks and data centers requires significant capital expenditures, and its inability or failure to maintain its telecommunications networks and data centers would have a material impact on its market share and ability to generate revenue. As of December 31, 2011, the Company operates 20 data center facilities and any further data center expansion will involve significant capital expenditures for data center construction. The Company has also improved its wireline network over the past several years through increased capital expenditures for fiber optic cable in limited areas of its operating network, and in 2011, the Company began upgrading its wireless network to 4G, using HSPA+ technologies. In order to provide appropriate levels of service to the Company's customers, the network infrastructure must be protected against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage, or other intentional acts of vandalism. The Company’s networks may not address all of the problems that may be encountered in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problems, which may result in disruption of service to customers. The wireless industry continues to experience significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, wireless data and 4G services. Verizon and AT&T deployed their 4G wireless networks in 2011. Other national and regional wireless carriers are continuously upgrading their networks with various technologies. CBW began construction of its 4G wireless network in 2011; however, the full implementation of this network will likely take several years, and CBW may lag behind certain of the national competitors in construction of the 4G network and the speeds associated with this network. The Company may also incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated developments, regulatory changes, and other events that impact the business. If the Company is unable or fails to adequately maintain or expand its networks to meet customer needs, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company’s market share and its ability to generate revenue. Maintenance of CBW’s wireless network, growth in the wireless business, or the addition of new wireless products and services may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum and transmitting sites which may not be available or be available only on less than favorable terms. CBW uses spectrum licensed to the Company for its wireless network. Introduction of new wireless products and services, as well as maintenance of the existing wireless business, may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum either to supplement or to replace the existing spectrum. Furthermore, the Company’s network depends on the deployment of radio frequency equipment on towers and on buildings. The Company, after the sale of its owned towers in December 2009, now leases substantially all the towers used in its wireless network operations, and the use of the towers under these leases is more restrictive than if these towers were owned by the Company. There can be no assurance that spectrum or the appropriate transmitting locations will be available to CBW or will be available on commercially favorable terms. Failure to obtain or retain any needed spectrum or transmitting locations could have a materially adverse impact on the wireless business as a whole, the quality of the wireless networks, and the ability to offer new competitive products and services. Failure to anticipate the need for and introduce new products and services or to compete with new technologies may compromise the Company’s success in the telecommunications industry. The Company’s success depends, in part, on being able to anticipate the needs of current and future business, carrier, and consumer customers. The Company seeks to meet these needs through new product introductions, service quality, and technological superiority. New products are not always available to the Company, as other competitors may have exclusive agreements for those new products. New products and services are important to the Company’s success as its industry is technologically driven, such that new technologies can offer alternatives to the Company’s existing services. The development of new technologies and products could accelerate the Company’s loss of access lines and increase wireless customer churn, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company may encounter difficulties in executing its strategic plans for the data center colocation business. The Company is in the process of evaluating the structural, capital and financial alternatives for its growing data center business. Management is considering options that may include, among others, operating the data center business under the current structure with no changes, a partial separation through a sale, initial public offering, or other transaction, or, depending on the value to shareholders, a full separation. There can be no assurance that a transaction will be pursued or completed.17Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company's strategic plans also include significant expansion of its data center operations. Potential challenges and difficulties in implementing the Company’s data center colocation expansion plan include: identifying and obtaining the use of locations in which the Company believes there is sufficient demand for its data center colocation services; generating sufficient cash flow from operations or through additional financings to support these expansion plans; construction of world-class data center facilities on a timely basis; sale of the available data center space to enable appropriate returns; recruiting and maintaining a motivated work force; and installing and implementing new financial and other systems, procedures and controls to support this expansion plan with minimal delays. These strategic actions could divert management’s attention and strain operational and financial resources. Due to unforeseen difficulties, the Company may be unable to execute its strategic plans for growing its data center business. Failure to do so would adversely affect its strategy of becoming a global data center colocation business. The Company’s data center colocation strategy includes international expansion, which has inherent risk not previously encountered by the Company. The Company’s data center operations are primarily based in the United States with lesser presence in the United Kingdom and Southeast Asia. Expanding international operations includes inherent risks such as: regulatory, tax, legal, and other items specific to particular foreign jurisdictions not previously encountered by the Company and for which the Company may have no or limited expertise; unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; the Company’s ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; and laws and regulations on content distributed over the internet that are more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States. Any one or more of the aforementioned risks could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and strategy for becoming a global data center colocation provider. If the markets for outsourced information technology services decline, there may be insufficient demand for the Company’s services and, as a result, the Company’s business strategy and objectives may fail. Services offered in the Company's IT outsourcing subsidiary, Cincinnati Bell Technology Solutions Inc. ("CBTS") and its data center colocation subsidiary, CyrusOne, are designed to enable a customer to focus on its core business while CBTS and CyrusOne manage and ensure the quality and security of the information technology infrastructure. Businesses may believe the risk of outsourcing is greater than the risk of managing their IT and data center operations themselves. If businesses do not continue to recognize the high cost and inefficiency of managing IT and data centers themselves, including the difficulties of upgrading technology, training and retaining skilled personnel with domain expertise, and matching IT cost with actual benefits, they may not continue to outsource their IT infrastructure and data center function to companies like CBTS and CyrusOne. Additionally, outsourcing may be associated with larger companies than CBTS and CyrusOne, and each may not be as successful as these larger companies. These risks could adversely affect the Company's business strategy and objectives and its ability to generate revenues, profits and cash flows. The increased use of high power density equipment may limit the Company's ability to fully utilize some of its data centers.Customers are increasing their use of high-density electrical power equipment in the Company's data centers which has significantly increased the demand for power. Because some of the Company's data centers were built a number of years ago, the current demand for electrical power may exceed the designated electrical capacity in these centers. As electrical power is a limiting factor in certain data centers, the ability to fully utilize those data centers may be limited. The availability of sufficient power may also pose a risk to the successful operation of new data centers. The ability to increase the power capacity is dependent upon several factors including, but not limited to, the local utility's ability to provide additional power, the length of time required to provide such power, and/or whether it is feasible to upgrade the electrical infrastructure of the data centers to deliver additional power to customers. Although the Company is currently designing and building to a very high power specification, there is a risk that demand will continue to increase and some of the data centers could become obsolete sooner than expected. The Company's profitability could be adversely affected if demand for data center services is overestimated or underestimated.Acquisition and development of new data center space requires significant resources and careful consideration of the demand for such services in future periods. If demand for data center services is underestimated, loss of sales opportunities may result from having insufficient available capacity to meet a customer's needs. If demand for data center services is overestimated, more data center space than is needed may be built or leased, resulting in higher operating costs and reduced profitability. To 18Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.mitigate these risks, expansion plans are continuously monitored against industry trends and customer demand. The goal is to incrementally build new space or expand existing facilities to manage capital expenditures and operating costs, or seek options in long-term leases to add additional space in future periods. Recently, the Company purchased land and buildings to expand data center capacity in 2012. If the demand for data center services has been misjudged, profitability could decline in future periods, and the investment returns may not be sufficiently high.The long sales cycle for data center services may materially affect the data center business and results of its operations. A customer’s decision to lease space in one of the Company’s data centers and to purchase additional services typically involves a significant commitment of resources, significant contract negotiations regarding the service level commitments, and significant due diligence on the part of the customer regarding the adequacy of the Company’s facilities, including the adequacy of carrier connections. As a result, the sale of data center space has a long sales cycle. Furthermore, the Company may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular sale or customer that may not result in revenue. Delays and failures in the data center sales cycle may have a material adverse effect on the Data Center Colocation segment and results of its operations. The Company’s failure to meet performance standards under its agreements could result in customers terminating their relationships with the Company or customers being entitled to receive financial compensation, which could lead to reduced revenues and/or increased costs. The Company’s agreements with its customers contain various requirements regarding performance and levels of service. If the Company fails to provide the levels of service or performance required by its agreements, customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts and other financial compensation, and also may be able to terminate their relationship with the Company. In order to provide these levels of services, the Company is required to protect against human error, natural disasters, equipment failure, power failure, sabotage and vandalism, and have disaster recovery plans available for disruption of services. The failure to address these or other events, may result in a disruption of services. In addition, any inability to meet service level commitments or other performance standards could reduce the confidence of customers and could consequently impair the Company’s ability to attract and retain customers, which would adversely affect both the Company’s ability to generate revenues and operating results. The data center business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, increased costs of energy, or general lack of availability of electrical resources. Data centers are susceptible to regional costs of power, power outages and shortages, and limitations on the availability of adequate power resources. The Company attempts to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, the Company may not be able to limit the exposure entirely in future occurrences even with those protections in place. In addition, global fluctuations in the price of power can increase the cost of energy, and although contractual price increase clauses may exist and, in some cases, the data center customer pays directly for the cost of power, the Company may not be able to pass all of these increased costs on to customers, or the increase in power costs may impact additional sales of data center space. The Company’s failure to effectively integrate its acquisition of CyrusOne could result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of the purchase and adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. The Company’s acquisition of CyrusOne involves the integration of two companies that had previously operated independently, which is challenging and time-consuming. The process of integrating CyrusOne, a previously privately-held company, into the Company, a publicly traded company, could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of its ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in the respective standards, controls, procedures, and policies of the two companies, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, and employees. In addition, the successful combination of the companies will require the Company to dedicate significant management resources and to potentially expend additional funds for additional staffing, resources and control procedures, all of which could temporarily divert attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. If the Company fails to complete an effective integration of CyrusOne into the Company, anticipated growth in revenue, profitability, and cash flow resulting from the purchase of CyrusOne could be adversely affected. The Company’s future cash flows could be adversely affected if it is unable to fully realize its deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had net deferred income taxes of $453.7 million, which are primarily composed of deferred tax assets associated with U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of $394.3 million and state and local net operating loss carryforwards of $59.6 million. The Company has recorded valuation allowances against deferred tax assets 19Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.related to certain state and local net operating losses and other deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the Company’s ability to utilize the assets within the statutory expiration period. The use of the Company’s deferred tax assets enables it to satisfy current and future tax liabilities without the use of the Company’s cash resources. If the Company is unable for any reason to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize its deferred tax assets, or if the use of its net operating loss carryforwards is limited by Internal Revenue Code Section 382 or similar state statute, the Company’s net income, shareowners’ deficit, and future cash flows could be adversely affected. A few large customers account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues and accounts receivable. The loss or significant reduction in business from one or more of these large customers could cause operating revenues to decline significantly and have a materially adverse long-term impact on the Company’s business. The Company has receivables with one large customer that exceed 10% of the Company’s outstanding accounts receivable balance. Contracts with customers may not sufficiently reduce the inherent risk that customers may terminate or fail to renew their relationships with the Company. As a result of customer concentration, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected if the Company lost one or more large customers or if services purchased were significantly reduced. If one or more of the Company’s larger customers were to default on its accounts receivable obligations, the Company could be exposed to potentially significant losses in excess of the provisions established. This could also negatively impact the available capacity under the accounts receivable facility. The Company depends on a number of third-party providers, and the loss of, or problems with, one or more of these providers may impede the Company's growth or cause it to lose customers. The Company depends on third-party providers to supply products and services. For example, many of the Company’s information technology and call center functions are performed by third-party providers, network equipment is purchased from and maintained by vendors, data center space is leased from landlords, and the Company is dependent on third-parties to provide internet connectivity to certain of the data centers. Certain of the data centers are dependent upon third-party telecommunication companies to provide network connectivity. Any carrier may elect not to offer its services within the data centers, and any carrier that has decided to provide internet connectivity to our data centers may elect not to continue to do so for any period of time. Furthermore, some carriers are experiencing business difficulties or have announced consolidations and may be forced to downsize or terminate connectivity within the data centers, which could have an adverse affect on the business.In addition, almost half of the wireless towers used by CBW are managed by a single independent service provider. Any failure on the part of suppliers to provide the contracted services, additional required services, additional products, or additional leased space could impede the growth of the Company’s business and cause financial results to suffer. A failure of back-office information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The efficient operation of the Company’s business depends on back-office information technology systems. The Company relies on back-office information technology systems to effectively manage customer billing, business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. A failure of the Company’s information technology systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt the Company’s business and result in a failure to collect accounts receivable, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing the Company’s reputation and results of operations to suffer. In addition, information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the Company’s control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats.Cybersecurity threats could adversely affect the wireline or wireless networks, the electronic payment system, or the corporate network. Such threats could result in disruption of customer service, unauthorized access to or misappropriation of confidential customer data, or damage to our internal network. Preventative measures in place to mitigate such risks include use of dedicated private networks, strong user names and passwords, intrusion protection systems, anti-virus software, and encryption and authentication technology. Weekly system scans are performed on the most critical systems to identify potential vulnerabilities. These events could disrupt operations, result in a loss of customers, lead to adverse publicity, or require significant amounts of capital to remedy the cybersecurity breach.20Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The loss of any of the senior management team or attrition among key sales associates could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company’s success will continue to depend to a significant extent on its senior management team and key sales associates. Senior management has specific knowledge relating to the Company and the industry that would be difficult to replace. The loss of key sales associates could hinder the Company’s ability to continue to benefit from long-standing relationships with customers. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to retain the current senior management team or key sales associates. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Future declines in the fair value of the Company's wireless licenses could result in future impairment losses.The market values of wireless licenses have varied dramatically over the last several years and may vary significantly in the future. In 2009, the Company incurred a loss of $4.8 million on the sale of spectrum it was not using in Indianapolis, Indiana. Further valuation swings could occur if: • consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings;• a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs;• market prices decline as a result of the sale prices in recent and upcoming FCC auctions; or• significant technology changes occur.In addition, the price of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of the Company’s markets. If the market value of wireless licenses were to decline significantly, the value of the Company’s wireless licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. The Company reviews for potential impairments to its wireless licenses annually, or more frequently, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. A significant impairment loss, most likely resulting from reduced cash flow, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating income and on the carrying value of the wireless licenses on the balance sheet. The uncertain economic environment, including uncertainty in the U.S. and world securities markets, could impact the Company's business and financial condition.The uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and financial liquidity. The Company's primary source of cash is customer collections. If economic conditions were to worsen, some customers may cancel services or have difficulty paying. These conditions could result in lower revenues and increases in the allowance for doubtful accounts, which would negatively affect the results of operations. Furthermore, the sales cycle could be further lengthened if business customers slow spending or delay decision-making on the Company's products and services, which could adversely affect revenues. If competitors lower prices as a result of economic conditions, the Company could also experience pricing pressure. If the economies of the U.S. and the world deteriorate, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.In addition, investment returns of the Company’s pension funds depend largely on trends in the U.S. and world securities markets and the U.S. and world economies in general. Future investment losses could cause a further decline in the value of plan assets, which the Company would be required to recognize over the next several years under generally accepted accounting principles. Additionally, the Company’s postretirement costs are adversely affected by increases in medical and prescription drug costs. If the Company incurs future investment losses or future investment gains that are less than expected, or if medical and prescription drug costs increase significantly, the Company would expect to face even higher annual net pension and postretirement costs. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with the Company’s employee benefit plans could negatively impact shareowners’ deficit and liquidity. The Company sponsors three noncontributory defined benefit pension plans: one for eligible management employees, one for non-management employees, and one supplemental, nonqualified, unfunded plan for certain senior executives. The Company’s consolidated balance sheets indirectly reflect the value of all plan assets and benefit obligations under these plans. The accounting for employee benefit plans is complex, as is the process of calculating the benefit obligations under the plans. Further adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant 21Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.increase in the Company’s benefit obligations or a significant decrease of the asset values, without necessarily impacting the Company’s net income. In addition, the Company’s benefit obligations could increase significantly if it needs to unfavorably revise the assumptions used to calculate the obligations. These adverse changes could have a further significant negative impact on the Company’s shareowners’ deficit. In addition, with respect to the Company’s pension plans, the Company expects to make approximately $200 million of estimated cash contributions to its qualified pension plans for the years 2012 to 2019, of which $30 million is expected to be contributed in 2012. Further, adverse changes to plan assets could require the Company to contribute additional material amounts of cash to the plan or could accelerate the timing of required payments. Third parties may claim that the Company is infringing upon their intellectual property, and the Company could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products. Although the Company does not believe that any of its products or services infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, the Company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology, products, or services. Any litigation growing out of third-party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the Company’s management and key personnel from its business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require the Company to enter into costly license agreements. Likewise, the Company may not be able to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms. The Company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of its products. Further, the Company often relies on licenses of third-party intellectual property for its businesses. The Company cannot ensure these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. Third parties may infringe upon the Company’s intellectual property, and the Company may expend significant resources enforcing its rights or suffer competitive injury. The Company’s success depends in significant part on the competitive advantage it gains from its proprietary technology and other valuable intellectual property assets. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets protections, confidentiality provisions, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect its intellectual property rights. If the Company fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operating results. The Company may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police its intellectual property rights. The Company may not be able to detect third-party infringements and its competitive position may be harmed before the Company does so. In addition, competitors may design around the Company’s technology or develop competing technologies. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with the Company using that intellectual property. The Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with, or potential violations of, environmental, health, and human safety laws. The Company’s operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, health, and human safety, including those governing the management and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and the cleanup of contamination, and the emission of radio frequency. While the Company believes its operations are in substantial compliance with environmental, health, and human safety laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of property, and in connection with the current and historical use of hazardous materials and other operations at its sites, the Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with or violations of such laws, the imposition of cleanup obligations, and third-party suits. For instance, a number of the Company’s sites formerly contained underground storage tanks for the storage of used oil and fuel for back-up generators and vehicles. In addition, a few sites currently contain underground fuel tanks for back-up generator use, and many of the Company’s sites have aboveground fuel tanks for similar purposes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.