Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our IndebtednessThe Company’s substantial debt could limit its ability to fund operations, raise additional capital, and have a material adverse effect on its ability to fulfill its obligations and on its businesses and prospects generally. The Company has a substantial amount of debt and has significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness of $2,689.4 million, on which it incurred $218.9 million of interest expense in 2012, and had total shareowners’ deficit of $698.2 million. In addition, at December 31, 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries had the ability to borrow additional amounts of $200.0 million under the Corporate revolving credit facility, $225.0 million under the CyrusOne revolving credit facility, and $32.3 million under its accounts receivable facility, subject to compliance with certain conditions. As of January 24, 2013, the Company completed the IPO of CyrusOne. As a result, it no longer has access to the CyrusOne revolving credit facility. The Company may incur additional debt from time to time, subject to the restrictions contained in its credit facilities and other debt instruments. The Company’s substantial debt could have important consequences, including the following: • the Company will be required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements;• the Company’s interest rate on its revolving credit facilities depends on the level of the Company’s specified financial ratios, and therefore could increase if the Company’s specified financial ratios require a higher rate;• the Company’s substantial debt will increase its vulnerability to adverse changes in the credit markets which could result in an increase in the Company's borrowing costs and may limit the availability of financing;• the Company’s debt service obligations could limit its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates;• the Company’s level of debt and shareowners’ deficit may restrict it from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, and other general corporate requirements; and• the Company’s debt instruments require maintenance of specified financial ratios and other restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, could limit availability to the cash required to fund operations and general obligations and could result in the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization.13Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company’s creditors and preferred stockholders have claims that are superior to claims of the holders of the Company's common stock. Accordingly, in the event of the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization, payment is first made on the claims of creditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, then preferred stockholders, and finally, if amounts are available, to holders of the Company's common stock. The credit facilities and other indebtedness impose significant restrictions on the Company. The Company’s debt instruments impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on the Company. These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, the Company’s ability to: • incur additional indebtedness;• create liens;• make investments;• enter into transactions with affiliates;• sell assets;• guarantee indebtedness;• declare or pay dividends or other distributions to shareholders;• repurchase equity interests;• redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to such indebtedness;• enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries;• issue or sell capital stock of certain of its subsidiaries; and• consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of its assets and the assets of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.In addition, the Company’s credit facilities and debt instruments include restrictive covenants that may materially limit the Company’s ability to prepay debt and preferred stock. The agreements governing the credit facilities also require the Company to achieve and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. The restrictions contained in the terms of the credit facilities and its other debt instruments could: • limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict the Company’s activities or business plans; and• adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, or other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be in its interest.A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or the Company’s inability to comply with the required financial ratios would result in a default under some or all of the debt agreements. During the occurrence and continuance of a default, lenders may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Additionally, under the credit facilities, the lenders may elect not to provide loans until such default is cured or waived. The Company’s debt instruments also contain cross-acceleration provisions, which generally cause each instrument to be subject to early repayment of outstanding principal and related interest upon a qualifying acceleration of any other debt instrument. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, could limit the cash required to fund operations and its general obligations, and could result in the Company’s dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. The Company depends on its revolving credit and accounts receivable facilities to provide for its financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations. The Company depends on its revolving credit facility ("Corporate Credit Agreement") and accounts receivable securitization facility ("Receivables Facility") to provide for temporary financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under its Corporate Credit Agreement or CyrusOne Credit Agreement, leaving $425.0 million in additional borrowing availability under these facilities. With the completion of the CyrusOne IPO on January 24, 2013, the Company no longer has access to the CyrusOne Credit Agreement, reducing its borrowing capacity by the $225 million CyrusOne facility. The $200 million Corporate Credit Agreement is funded by various financial institutions. If one or more of these banks is not able to fulfill its funding obligations, the Company’s financial condition could be adversely affected. 14Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The original revolving commitments under the Corporate Credit Agreement will be permanently reduced by the lesser of (i) the amount of net cash proceeds from the first sale by the Company of its equity interests in CyrusOne or CyrusOne LP to occur after the IPO of common stock of CyrusOne Inc. and (ii) $50.0 million, provided that such sale occurs by December 31, 2014. If such sale has not occurred by that date, the original revolving commitments will be permanently reduced to $150.0 million. In addition, the original revolving commitments will be further reduced to $125.0 million on December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had $52.0 million of borrowings and $6.3 million of letters of credit that were outstanding under its Receivables Facility. At that date, the Company had a borrowing availability under this Receivables Facility of $90.6 million and a maximum borrowing limit of $105.0 million. The available borrowing capacity is calculated monthly based on the quantity and quality of outstanding accounts receivable and thus may be lower than the maximum borrowing limit. If the quality of the Company’s accounts receivables deteriorates, this will negatively impact the available capacity under this facility. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had an unused borrowing availability of $32.3 million under the Receivables Facility.In addition, the Company's ability to borrow under its Corporate Credit Agreement and Receivable Facility is subject to the Company's compliance with covenants, including covenants requiring compliance with specified financial ratios. Failure to satisfy these covenants would constrain or prohibit its ability to borrow under these facilities. The servicing of the Company’s indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and its ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond its control. The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The Company cannot provide assurance that its business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, additional sources of debt financing will be available, or future borrowings will be available under its Corporate Credit Agreement or Receivables Facility, in each case, in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If the Company cannot service its indebtedness, it will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures, or selling assets, including its investment in CyrusOne, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital, which may adversely affect its shareholders, debt holders, and customers. The Company may not be able to negotiate remedies on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives. The Company’s inability to generate the necessary cash flows could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization. The Company depends on the receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from its subsidiaries and investments.Virtually all of the Company's operations are conducted through its subsidiaries and most of the Company's debt is held at the parent company. Certain of the Company's material subsidiaries are subject to regulatory authority which may potentially limit the ability of such subsidiaries to distribute funds or assets. If any of the Company's subsidiaries were to be prohibited from paying dividends or making distributions, the Company may not be able to make the scheduled interest and principal repayments on its debt. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and the trading price of the Company's common stock, preferred stock, and debt instruments, which could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization.Risk Factors Related to our Communications Business and OperationsThe Company’s access lines, which generate a significant portion of its cash flows and profits, are decreasing in number. If the Company continues to experience access line losses similar to the past several years, its revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations may be adversely impacted. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenues by delivering voice and data services over access lines. The Company's local telecommunications subsidiary, CBT, has experienced substantial access line losses over the past several years due to a number of factors, including increased competition and wireless and broadband substitution. The Company expects access line losses to continue into the foreseeable future. Failure to retain access lines without replacing such losses with an alternative source of revenue could adversely impact the Company's revenues, earnings and cash flow from operations. 15Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company's wireless subscribers are decreasing in number. If the Company continues to experience subscriber losses similar to the past several years, its revenues, earnings and cash flows from operation may be adversely affected. The Company's wireless telecommunications subsidiary, CBW, has experienced substantial subscriber losses over the past several years due to a number of factors, including competitors' investment in more technologically advanced LTE networks, which the Company does not have, and consumer preferences for national carriers and competitors' handsets. The Company expects these subscriber losses to continue into the foreseeable future. Failure to retain subscribers could adversely impact the Company's revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations. In addition, failure to retain subscribers may result in the inability to realize our investment in this business and lead to impairment losses on long-lived and intangible assets in the future.The Company operates in highly competitive industries, and its customers may not continue to purchase services, which could result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. The telecommunications industry is very competitive, and the Company competes against many larger and better-funded national providers. Competitors may reduce pricing, create new bundled offerings, or develop new technologies, products, or services. If the Company cannot continue to offer reliable, competitively priced, value-added services, or if the Company does not keep pace with technological advances, competitive forces could adversely affect it through a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue and profit margins. The Company has lost, and will likely continue to lose, access lines and wireless subscribers as a part of its customer base utilizes the services of competitive wireline or wireless providers.The Wireline segment faces competition from other local exchange carriers, wireless service providers, inter-exchange carriers, and cable, broadband, and internet service providers. Wireless providers, particularly those that provide unlimited wireless service plans with no additional fees for long distance, offer customers a substitution service for the Company’s access lines. The Company believes this is the reason for the largest portion of the Company’s access line losses. Also, cable competitors that have existing service relationships with CBT’s customers also offer substitution services, such as VoIP and long distance voice services in the Company's operating areas. Partially as a result of wireless substitution and increased competition, CBT’s access lines decreased by 8% and long distance subscribers decreased by 7% in 2012 compared to 2011. In addition, the high-speed internet market is saturated in CBT’s operating area, and competition will continue to be fierce for market share against competitors and alternative services. If the Company is unable to effectively implement strategies to retain access lines, high-speed internet subscribers, and long distance subscribers, or replace such customers with other sources of revenue, the Company’s Wireline business will be adversely affected. Wireless competitors to the Company's subsidiary, CBW, include national wireless service providers such as Verizon, AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile, Leap and TracFone. Both Verizon and AT&T have implemented more technologically advanced LTE networks within our operating territory. In 2013, both T-Mobile and Sprint Nextel are expected to begin to offer LTE service in our operating territory. LTE provides higher-speed data transmission and capacity which is attractive to smartphone users. The Company has piloted a LTE network trial program in limited operating territories, and has not yet determined whether it will upgrade its network to LTE or, if it does upgrade, the timing of the LTE upgrade and the extent of its network that it will upgrade with LTE. Our limited handset offerings are also a factor in our ability to attract and retain customers. Although we believe our handsets are technologically equivalent to those being offered by the national carriers, we do not carry the premium brand-name handsets such as the iPhoneTM. These competitive factors will likely result in a continued loss of wireless subscribers and adversely affect our wireless revenues and operating margins.The IT Services and Hardware segment competes against numerous other information technology consulting, web-hosting, and computer system integration companies, many of which are large in scope and well-financed. This market is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Other competitors may consolidate with larger companies or acquire software application vendors or technology providers, which may provide competitive advantages. The Company believes that many of the participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve significant scale to compete effectively. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that could impede our ability to compete successfully in the market.The competitive forces described above could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving a limited geographic area. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving customers in the Greater Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio areas. An economic downturn or natural disaster occurring in this limited operating territory could have a disproportionate effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows compared to similar companies of a national scope and similar companies operating in different geographic areas.16Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The regulation of the Company’s businesses by federal and state authorities may, among other things, place the Company at a competitive disadvantage, restrict its ability to price its products and services, and threaten its operating licenses. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to regulatory oversight of varying degrees at both the state and federal levels, which may differ from the regulatory scrutiny faced by the Company’s competitors. A significant portion of CBT’s revenue is derived from pricing plans that require regulatory overview and approval. These regulated pricing plans limit the rates CBT charges for some services while its competition has typically been able to set rates for its services with limited restriction. In the future, regulatory initiatives that would put CBT at a competitive disadvantage or mandate lower rates for its services could result in lower profitability and cash flows for the Company. In addition, different regulatory interpretations of existing regulations or guidelines may affect the Company’s revenues and expenses in future periods. At the federal level, CBT is subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"), including the rules subsequently adopted by the FCC to implement the 1996 Act, which has impacted CBT’s in-territory local exchange operations in the form of greater competition. At the state level, CBT conducts local exchange operations in portions of Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana, and, consequently, is subject to regulation by the Public Utilities Commissions in those states. Various regulatory decisions or initiatives at the federal or state level may from time to time have a negative impact on CBT’s ability to compete in its markets. CBW’s FCC licenses to provide wireless services are subject to renewal and revocation. Although the FCC has routinely renewed wireless licenses in the past, the Company cannot be assured that challenges will not be brought against those licenses in the future. Revocation or non-renewal of CBW’s licenses could result in a cessation of CBW’s operations and consequently lower operating results and cash flows for the Company. Further, if CBW ceases offering wireless services, its wireless licenses could revert back to the FCC.From time to time, different regulatory agencies conduct audits to ensure that the Company is in compliance with the respective regulations. The Company could be subject to fines and penalties if found to be out of compliance with these regulations, and these fines and penalties could be material to the Company’s financial condition. There are currently many regulatory actions under way and being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding issues that could result in significant changes to the business conditions in the telecommunications industry. Assurances cannot be given that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative, or judicial initiatives relating to the telecommunications industry, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Maintaining the Company's telecommunications networks requires significant capital expenditures, and its inability or failure to maintain its telecommunications networks would have a material impact on its market share and ability to generate revenue. The Company has improved its wireline network over the past several years through increased capital expenditures for fiber optic cable in limited areas of its operating network. In 2011 and 2012, the Company also upgraded a portion of its wireless network to 4G, using HSPA+ technologies. In order to provide appropriate levels of service to the Company's customers, the network infrastructure must be protected against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage, or other intentional acts of vandalism. The Company's networks may not address all of the problems that may be encountered in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problems, which may result in disruption of service to customers. The wireless industry continues to experience significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in network speeds. LTE currently offers the fastest data transmission speeds. Verizon and AT&T have deployed LTE wireless networks in our operating territory. T-Mobile and Sprint Nextel are expected to deploy their LTE networks in our territory in 2013. The Company has piloted a LTE network trial program in limited operating territories, and has not yet determined whether it will upgrade its network to LTE or, if it does upgrade, the timing of the LTE upgrade and the extent of its network that it will upgrade.The Company may also incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated developments, regulatory changes, and other events that impact the business. If the Company is unable or fails to adequately maintain or expand its networks to meet customer needs, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company's market share and its ability to generate revenue.17Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.Maintenance of CBW’s wireless network, growth in the wireless business, or the addition of new wireless products and services may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum and transmitting sites which may not be available or be available only on less than favorable terms. CBW uses spectrum licensed to the Company for its wireless network. On a long-term basis, introduction of new wireless products and services, combined with continued growth in data usage, may require CBW to obtain additional spectrum either to supplement or to replace the existing spectrum. Furthermore, the Company’s network depends on the deployment of radio frequency equipment on towers and on buildings. The Company leases substantially all the towers used in its wireless network operations, and the use of the towers under these leases is more restrictive than if these towers were owned by the Company. There can be no assurance that spectrum or the appropriate transmitting locations will be available to CBW or will be available on commercially favorable terms. Failure to obtain or retain any needed spectrum or transmitting locations could have a materially adverse impact on the wireless business as a whole, the quality of the wireless networks, and the ability to offer new competitive products and services. Failure to anticipate the need for and introduce new products and services or to compete with new technologies may compromise the Company’s success in the telecommunications industry. The Company’s success depends, in part, on being able to anticipate the needs of current and future business, carrier, and residential customers. The Company seeks to meet these needs through new product introductions, service quality, and technological superiority. New products are not always available to the Company, as other competitors may have exclusive agreements for those new products. New products and services are important to the Company’s success as its industry is technologically driven, such that new technologies can offer alternatives to the Company’s existing services. The development of new technologies and products could accelerate the Company’s loss of access lines and increase wireless customer churn, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company's failure to meet performance standards under its agreements could result in customers terminating their relationships with the Company or customers being entitled to receive financial compensation, which could lead to reduced revenues and/or increased costs. The Company's agreements with its customers contain various requirements regarding performance and levels of service. If the Company fails to provide the levels of service or performance required by its agreements, customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts and other financial compensation, and also may be able to terminate their relationship with the Company. In order to provide these levels of services, the Company is required to protect against human error, natural disasters, equipment failure, power failure, sabotage and vandalism, and have disaster recovery plans available for disruption of services. The failure to address these or other events may result in a disruption of services. In addition, any inability to meet service level commitments or other performance standards could reduce the confidence of customers and could consequently impair the Company's ability to attract and retain customers, which would adversely affect both the Company's ability to generate revenues and operating results.A few large customers account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues and accounts receivable. The loss or significant reduction in business from one or more of these large customers could cause operating revenues to decline significantly and have a materially adverse long-term impact on the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had receivables with one large customer that exceeded 10% of the Company's outstanding accounts receivable balance. Contracts with customers may not sufficiently reduce the inherent risk that customers may terminate or fail to renew their relationships with the Company. As a result of customer concentration, the Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected if the Company lost one or more large customers or if services purchased were significantly reduced. If one or more of the Company's larger customers were to default on its accounts receivable obligations, the Company could be exposed to potentially significant losses in excess of the provisions established. This could also negatively impact the available capacity under the Receivables Facility. The Company depends on a number of third-party providers, and the loss of, or problems with, one or more of these providers may impede the Company's growth or cause it to lose customers. The Company depends on third-party providers to supply products and services. For example, many of the Company's information technology and call center functions are performed by third-party providers, and network equipment is purchased from and maintained by vendors. In addition, almost half of the wireless towers used by CBW are managed by a single independent service provider. Any failure on the part of suppliers to provide the contracted services, additional required services, or additional products could impede the Company's business and cause financial results to suffer. 18Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.A failure of back-office information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The efficient operation of the Company’s business depends on back-office information technology systems. The Company relies on back-office information technology systems to effectively manage customer billing, business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. A failure of the Company’s information technology systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt the Company’s business and result in a failure to collect accounts receivable, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing the Company’s reputation and results of operations to suffer. In addition, information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the Company’s control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats.Cybersecurity threats could adversely affect the wireline or wireless networks, the electronic payment system, or the corporate network. Such threats could result in disruption of customer service, unauthorized access to or misappropriation of confidential customer data, or damage to our internal network. Preventative measures in place to mitigate such risks include use of dedicated private networks, strong user names and passwords, intrusion protection systems, anti-virus software, and encryption and authentication technology. Weekly system scans are performed on the most critical systems to identify potential vulnerabilities. These events could disrupt operations, result in a loss of customers, lead to adverse publicity, or require significant amounts of capital to remedy the cybersecurity breach.The loss of any of the senior management team or attrition among key sales associates could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company’s success will continue to depend to a significant extent on its senior management team and key sales associates. Senior management has specific knowledge relating to the Company and the industry that would be difficult to replace. The loss of key sales associates could hinder the Company’s ability to continue to benefit from long-standing relationships with customers. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to retain the current senior management team or key sales associates. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk Factors Related to Our Investment in CyrusOneThe Company has a significant investment in CyrusOneOn January 24, 2013, the Company completed the IPO of CyrusOne. As a result, the Company now holds 1,890,000 shares of common stock of CyrusOne and 42,586,835 partnership units of CyrusOne LP, the operating partnership. CyrusOne LP units are exchangeable into common stock of CyrusOne on a one-to-one basis, or cash at the fair value of a share of CyrusOne common stock, at the option of CyrusOne, commencing January 17, 2014. The Company's direct and indirect interests in CyrusOne represent a 69% effective economic ownership of CyrusOne. Prior to the IPO of CyrusOne, there was no active market for CyrusOne's common stock. Our investment in CyrusOne is subject to volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may be unable to sell some or all of our investment in CyrusOne quickly or at all. The fair value of our investment in CyrusOne may decline which may adversely affect the realization of our investment. The Company no longer controls the operations of CyrusOneAs of January 24, 2013, CyrusOne is an independent public company which the Company does not control. As a result, the Company will no longer set the strategies, select the management team, or control the operations of CyrusOne. CyrusOne may choose to pursue strategies which conflict with our business strategies. The Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors is also the Chairman of CyrusOne's Board of Directors. However, if a conflict of interest develops between the Company and CyrusOne, the CyrusOne Board is required to act for the benefit of its shareholders. The Company has executed a non-compete agreement with CyrusOne where we have agreed not to enter each other's lines of business, subject to certain exceptions, for a period of four years. CyrusOne may choose to compete with us after the expiration of this non-compete which could have an adverse effect on our telecommunications business. 19Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.CyrusOne may encounter difficulties in executing its strategic plans for the data center colocation business. CyrusOne may face potential challenges and difficulties in implementing its data center colocation expansion plan which may include: identifying and obtaining the use of locations in which it believes there is sufficient demand for expansion of its data center colocation services; generating sufficient cash flow from operations or through additional financings to support these expansion plans; construction of world-class data center facilities on a timely basis; sale of the available data center space to enable appropriate returns; recruiting and maintaining a motivated work force; and installing and implementing new financial and other systems, procedures and controls to support a standalone public company and its expansion plan with minimal delays. These strategic actions could divert management's attention and strain operational and financial resources. Due to unforeseen difficulties, CyrusOne may be unable to execute its strategic plans for growing its data center business. Failure to do so would adversely affect its strategy of becoming a global data center colocation business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.A small number of customers account for a significant portion of CyrusOne's revenue. The loss or significant reductionin business from one or more of its large customers could significantly harm its business, financial condition and results of operations, and impact the amount of cash available for distribution to its stockholders.CyrusOne currently depends, and expects to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of their revenue. As a result of this customer concentration, CyrusOne's business, financial condition and results of operations, including the amount of cash available for distribution to its stockholders, could be adversely affected if it loses one or more of its larger customers, if such customers significantly reduce their business with CyrusOne or if it chooses not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, any rights that it may have now or in the future against these significant customers because of its desire to maintain relationships with them. A significant percentage of CyrusOne's customer base is also concentrated in industry sectors that may from time to time experience volatility including, in particular, the oil and gas sector. A downturn in the oil and gas industry could negatively impact the financial condition of one or more of its oil and gas company customers, including several of its larger customers. In an industry downturn, those customers could default on their obligations, delay the purchase of new services or decline to renew expiring leases, any of which could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.Additionally, if any customer becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, applicable bankruptcy laws may limit its ability to terminate its contract with such customer solely because of the bankruptcy or recover any amounts owed to it under its agreements with such customer. In addition, applicable bankruptcy laws could allow the customer to reject and terminate its agreement with CyrusOne, with limited ability for CyrusOne to collect the full amount of its damages. CyrusOne's business, including its revenue and cash available for distribution to its stockholders, could be adversely affected if any of its significant customers were to become bankrupt or insolvent.CyrusOne's performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry.CyrusOne's ability to make expected distributions to its stockholders depends on its ability to generate revenues in excess of expenses, scheduled principal payments on debt and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond its control may decrease cash available for distribution and the value of its properties. These events include:• local oversupply, increased competition or reduction in demand for technology-related space;• inability to collect rent from customers;• vacancies or its inability to rent space on favorable terms;• inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms;• increased operating costs to the extent not paid for by its customers;• costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations;• the relative illiquidity of real estate investments, especially the specialized real estate properties that CyrusOneholds and seeks to acquire and develop; and• changing submarket demographics.20Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.If CyrusOne fails to remain qualified as a REIT, it will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to its stockholders.CyrusOne intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to qualify as a REIT commencing with its taxable year ending December 31, 2013. Its qualification as a REIT will depend on its satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Its ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon its analysis of the characterization and fair market values of its assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination.If CyrusOne were to fail to remain qualified as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to its stockholders would not be deductible by it in computing its taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to its stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of its common stock. Unless CyrusOne was entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, it also would be disqualified from re-electing to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it failed to qualify as a REIT.CyrusOne's cash available for distribution to stockholders may not be sufficient to make distributions at expected levels.Distributions made by CyrusOne will be authorized and determined by its board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available therefor and will be dependent upon a number of factors, including restrictions under applicable law and its capital requirements. CyrusOne may not be able to make or sustain distributions in the future. To the extent that it decides to make distributions in excess of its current and accumulated earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder’s adjusted tax basis in its shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s adjusted tax basis in its investment. To the extent that distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder’s shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock.Other Risk FactorsThe trading price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, and the value of an investment in the Company's common stock may decline. The market price of the Company's common stock has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report and other factors beyond the Company's control, such as stock market volatility and fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to the Company.The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the Company's stock price and the market prices of equity securities of many other companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of the Company's stock. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have periodically been subject to securities class action litigation. The Company may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and/or damages and divert management's attention from other business concerns.The uncertain economic environment, including uncertainty in the U.S. and world securities markets, could impact the Company's business and financial condition.The uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and financial liquidity. The Company's primary source of cash is customer collections. If economic conditions were to worsen, some customers may cancel services or have difficulty paying. These conditions could result in lower revenues and increases in the allowance for doubtful accounts, which would negatively affect the results of operations. Furthermore, the sales cycle could be further lengthened if business customers slow spending or delay decision-making on the Company's products and services, which could adversely affect revenues. If competitors lower prices as a result of economic conditions, the Company could also experience pricing pressure. If the economies of the U.S. and the world deteriorate, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.21Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.In addition, investment returns of the Company’s pension funds depend largely on trends in the U.S. and world securities markets and the U.S. and world economies in general. Future investment losses could cause a decline in the value of plan assets, which the Company would be required to recognize over the next several years under generally accepted accounting principles. Additionally, the Company’s postretirement costs are adversely affected by increases in medical and prescription drug costs. If the Company incurs future investment losses or future investment gains that are less than expected, or if medical and prescription drug costs increase significantly, the Company would expect to face even higher annual net pension and postretirement costs. The Company’s future cash flows could be adversely affected if it is unable to fully realize its deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had net deferred income taxes of $434.6 million, which are primarily composed of deferred tax assets associated with U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of $352.0 million and state, local and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $58.8 million. The Company has recorded valuation allowances against deferred tax assets related to certain state, local and foreign net operating losses and other deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the Company’s ability to utilize the assets within the statutory expiration period. The use of the Company’s deferred tax assets enables it to satisfy current and future tax liabilities without the use of the Company’s cash resources. If the Company is unable for any reason to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize its deferred tax assets, or if the use of its net operating loss carryforwards is limited by Internal Revenue Code Section 382 or similar state statute, the Company’s net income, shareowners’ deficit, and future cash flows could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with the Company’s employee benefit plans could negatively impact shareowners’ deficit and liquidity. The Company sponsors three noncontributory defined benefit pension plans: one for eligible management employees, one for non-management employees, and one supplemental, nonqualified, unfunded plan for certain former executives. The Company’s consolidated balance sheets indirectly reflect the value of all plan assets and benefit obligations under these plans. The accounting for employee benefit plans is complex, as is the process of calculating the benefit obligations under the plans. Further adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in the Company’s benefit obligations or a significant decrease of the asset values, without necessarily impacting the Company’s net income. In addition, the Company’s benefit obligations could increase significantly if it needs to unfavorably revise the assumptions used to calculate the obligations. These adverse changes could have a further significant negative impact on the Company’s shareowners’ deficit. In addition, with respect to the Company’s pension plans, the Company expects to make approximately $190 million of estimated cash contributions to its qualified pension plans for the years 2013 to 2020, of which $42 million is expected to be contributed in 2013. Further, adverse changes to plan assets could require the Company to contribute additional material amounts of cash to the plan or could accelerate the timing of required payments. Third parties may claim that the Company is infringing upon their intellectual property, and the Company could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products. Although the Company does not believe that any of its products or services infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, the Company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology, products, or services. Any litigation growing out of third-party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the Company’s management and key personnel from its business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require the Company to enter into costly license agreements. Likewise, the Company may not be able to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms. The Company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of its products. Further, the Company often relies on licenses of third-party intellectual property for its businesses. The Company cannot ensure these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. Third parties may infringe upon the Company’s intellectual property, and the Company may expend significant resources enforcing its rights or suffer competitive injury. The Company’s success depends in significant part on the competitive advantage it gains from its proprietary technology and other valuable intellectual property assets. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets protections, confidentiality provisions, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect its intellectual property rights. If the Company fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operating results. 22Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I Cincinnati Bell Inc.The Company may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police its intellectual property rights. The Company may not be able to detect third-party infringements and its competitive position may be harmed before the Company does so. In addition, competitors may design around the Company’s technology or develop competing technologies. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with the Company using that intellectual property. The Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with, or potential violations of, environmental, health, and human safety laws. The Company’s operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, health, and human safety, including those governing the management and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and the cleanup of contamination, and the emission of radio frequency. While the Company believes its operations are in substantial compliance with environmental, health, and human safety laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of property, and in connection with the current and historical use of hazardous materials and other operations at its sites, the Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with or violations of such laws, the imposition of cleanup obligations, and third-party suits. For instance, a number of the Company’s sites formerly contained underground storage tanks for the storage of used oil and fuel for back-up generators and vehicles. In addition, our former Data Center Colocation business contained both underground and aboveground fuel tanks for back-up generator use. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 