Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events or risks described below occur or materialize, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks related to our business The industries in which we operate are cyclical, and downturns in such industries may adversely affect our operating results. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has been derived from the sale of our products to companies in the chemical, petrochemical, petroleum refining and power generating industries, or to firms that design and construct facilities for these industries. The core industries in which our products are used are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced severe downturns. Although we believe we are in a long-term expansion 4 Table of Contents of demand for our products in the petrochemical, petroleum refining and power generating industries, during fiscal 2009, we entered a sudden downturn in the demand for our products and services. Historically, previous cyclical downturns have lasted from one to several years. We have no way to predict or control the length or severity of this downturn. A sustained deterioration in any of the cyclical industries we serve would materially harm our business and operating results because our customers would not likely have the resources necessary to purchase our products nor would they likely have the need to build additional facilities or improve existing facilities. We serve markets that are capital intensive. The recent volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our operating results. Such volatility and disruption may also negatively impact our ability to access additional financing. Although we believe that the fundamentals that have driven our growth over the past few years remain essentially unchanged and that our long-term growth prospects remain strong, we also expect that the current economic crisis in the capital and credit markets will cause a slow-down in spending by our customers as they evaluate the current and future economic impact of such crisis to their project plans. If adverse economic and credit conditions persist or worsen, we would likely experience decreased revenue from our operations attributable to decreases in the spending levels of our customers. Adverse economic and credit conditions might also have a negative adverse effect on our cash flows if customers demand that we accept smaller project deposits and less frequent progress payments. In addition, adverse economic and credit conditions could put downward pricing pressure on us. If any of the foregoing occurs, there would be an adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, the current crises in the capital and credit markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, should we determine such financing is desirable to expand our business. The larger markets we serve are the petroleum refining and petrochemical industries which are both cyclical in nature and dependent on the price of oil. As a result, volatility in the price of crude oil may negatively impact our operating results. Although we believe that the global consumption of crude oil will increase over the course of the next twenty years and that there will be a shortage of global oil refining capacity, the price of crude oil has been very volatile. Many of our products are purchased in connection with oil refinery construction, revamps and upgrades. During times of significant volatility in the market for crude oil, our customers may refrain from placing large orders until the market stabilizes. During such times of high volatility, we could experience decreased revenue from our operations attributable to decreases in the spending levels of our customers. Our international sales operations are subject to uncertainties that could harm our business. We believe that revenue from the sale of our products outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. For fiscal 2009, our sales to geographic regions were 63% domestic and 37% international. Our international sales operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • difficulty enforcing agreements through some foreign legal systems; • general economic and political conditions in the countries where we sell our products may have an adverse effect on our sales in those countries; • foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that could directly or indirectly harm our business and growth strategy; and • it may be difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. Should any one of the above risks materialize, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 5 Table of Contents A large percentage of our sales are in non-U.S. jurisdictions. As a result, we are subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. For fiscal 2009, approximately 37% of our revenue was from customers located in countries outside of the United States. Moreover, we maintain a subsidiary and have facilities in China. We intend to continue to expand our international operations to the extent that suitable opportunities become available. Our foreign operations and sales could be adversely affected as a result of: • nationalization of private enterprises and assets; • political or economic instability in certain countries, especially during the current global economic crisis; • differences in foreign laws, including increased difficulties in protecting intellectual property and uncertainty in enforcement of contract rights; • credit risks; • currency fluctuations; • tariff and tax increases; • export and import restrictions and restrictive regulations of foreign governments; • shipping products during times of crisis or wars; • our failure to comply with United States laws regarding doing business in foreign jurisdictions, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • other factors inherent in foreign operations. We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations which may adversely affect our operating results. We are exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which we sell our products to the extent that such sales are not based on U.S. dollars. As such, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which cause the value of the U.S. dollar to increase, could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our business. While we may enter into currency exchange rate hedges from time to time to mitigate these types of fluctuations, we cannot remove all fluctuations or hedge all exposures and our earnings are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. In addition, if the counter-parties to such exchange contracts do not fulfill their obligations to deliver the contractual foreign currencies, we could be at risk for fluctuations, if any, required to settle the obligation. At March 31, 2009, we held no forward foreign currency exchange contracts. If we fail to introduce enhancements to our existing products or to keep abreast of technological changes in our markets, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Although technologies in the vacuum and heat transfer areas are well established, we believe our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enhance our existing products and develop new products in order to continue to meet customer demands. Our failure to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-competitive basis, or the development of processes that make our existing technologies or products obsolete, could harm our business and results of operations. The loss of any member of our executive management team and our inability to make up for such loss with a qualified replacement could harm our business. Competition for qualified management in our industry is intense. Many of the companies with which we compete for management personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do or are located in geographic areas which may be considered by some to be more desirable places to live. If we are not able to retain qualified management personnel or if a significant number of them were to leave our employ, our business could be harmed. 6 Table of Contents Our business is highly competitive. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategy, we risk losing market share to current and future competitors. Some of our present and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or manufacturing resources. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in customer demands. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address the needs of our customers. In addition, customer buying patterns can change as they become more price sensitive and accepting of low cost suppliers. If we cannot compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business will be harmed. If we are unable to make necessary capital investments or respond to pricing pressures, our business may be harmed. In order to remain competitive, we need to invest continuously in research and development, manufacturing, customer service and support, and marketing. From time to time we also have to adjust the prices of our products to remain competitive. We may not have available sufficient financial or other resources to continue to make investments necessary to maintain our competitive position. If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we were to infringe the intellectual property of third parties, we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer. We may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if we were to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our competitive position could suffer. Furthermore, other companies may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate or reverse engineer our technologies or design around our patents. In some instances, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs to us and divert the attention of our management, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain products or require us to redesign certain products, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to contract cancellations and delays by our customers, which may adversely affect our operating results. Contract cancellations may occur, which could reduce the realizable value of our backlog and negatively impact the amount of revenue earned and the profitability of our business. Certain contracts in backlog may contain provisions allowing for the assessment of cancellation charges to our customers to substantially compensate us for costs incurred on cancelled contracts. Delay of contract execution by our customers can result in volatility in our operating results. A decrease in supply or increase in cost of the materials used in our products could harm our profitability. Any restrictions on the supply or the increase in the cost of the materials used by us in manufacturing our products could significantly reduce our profit margins, which could harm our results of operations. Any efforts we may engage in to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of materials by entering into long-term 7 Table of Contents purchase agreements, by implementing productivity improvements or by passing cost increases on to our customers may not be successful. Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of the materials used in the manufacture of our products, which in many instances are supplied by a limited number of sources. If we are unable to effectively outsource a portion of our production during times when we are experiencing strong demand, our results of operations might be adversely affected. In addition, outsourcing may negatively affect our profit margins. When we experience strong demand for our products, our business strategy calls for us to increase manufacturing capacity through outsourcing selected fabrication processes. We could experience difficulty in outsourcing if customers demand that our products be manufactured by us exclusively. Furthermore, our ability to effectively outsource production could be adversely affected by limited worldwide manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to effectively outsource our production capacity when circumstances warrant, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we might not be able to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. In addition, outsourcing to complete our products and services can increase the costs associated with such products and services. If we rely too heavily on outsourcing and are not able to increase our own production capacity during times when there is high demand for our products and services, our margins may be negatively effected. We face potential liability from asbestos exposure and similar claims. We are a defendant in several lawsuits alleging illnesses from exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products and seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of these lawsuits or whether we could become subject to any similar, related or additional lawsuits in the future. In addition, because some of our products are used in systems that handle toxic or hazardous substances, any failure or alleged failure of our products in the future could result in litigation against us. Any litigation brought against us, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs to us as well as divert the attention of our management, which could harm our business and results of operations. Risks related to operating a subsidiary in China The operations of our Chinese subsidiary may be adversely affected by China’s evolving economic, political and social conditions. We conduct our business in China primarily through our wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary. The results of operations and future prospects of our Chinese subsidiary are subject to evolving economic, political and social developments in China. In particular, the results of operations of our Chinese subsidiary may be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political, economic and social conditions, changes in policies of the Chinese government, changes in laws and regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, changes in foreign exchange regulations, measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases, and changes in the rates or methods of taxation. Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in China. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to the commercial law in many of our other major markets and limited protection of intellectual property is available in China as a practical matter. Although we intend to take precautions in the operations of our Chinese subsidiary to protect our intellectual property, any local design or manufacture of products that we undertake in China could subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties will be able to copy or otherwise obtain or use our intellectual property, which could harm our business. We may also have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter patent or trademark infringers. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect the operations of our Chinese subsidiary. Our Chinese subsidiary is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of laws, rules and policies in China. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions have limited precedential value. Because many laws 8 Table of Contents and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Moreover, the relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation, and the interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Finally, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic. For the preceding reasons, it may be difficult for us to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws ostensibly designed to protect companies like ours. Risks related to the ownership of our common stock Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and our stockholder rights plan could impair or delay stockholders’ ability to change our management and could discourage takeover transactions that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as our stockholder rights plan, could impede attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace our management and could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction, including a potential transaction at a premium over the market price of our common stock, that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. For example: • We could issue shares of preferred stock with terms adverse to our common stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of such shares without obtaining any further approval from the holders of our common stock. We could issue shares of preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock, or that have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. • We maintain a stockholder rights, or “poison pill,” plan. Our stockholder rights plan has the effect of discouraging any person or group that wishes to acquire 15% or more of our common stock from doing so without obtaining our agreement because such acquisition would cause such person or group to suffer substantial dilution. Such plan may have the effect of discouraging a change in control transaction that our stockholders would otherwise consider to be in their best interests. • Only a minority of our directors may be elected in a given year. Our bylaws provide for a classified Board of Directors, with only approximately one-third of our Board elected each year. This provision makes it more difficult to effect a change of control because at least two annual stockholder meetings are necessary to replace a majority of our directors. • Our bylaws contain advance notice requirements. Our bylaws also provide that any stockholder who wishes to bring business before an annual meeting of our stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at an annual meeting of our stockholders must deliver advance notice of their proposals to us before the meeting. Such advance notice provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult to introduce business at stockholder meetings or nominate candidates for election as director. • Our certificate of incorporation requires supermajority voting to approve a change of control transaction. Seventy-five percent of our outstanding shares entitled to vote are required to approve any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets and similar transactions if the other party to such transaction owns 5% or more of our shares entitled to vote. In addition, a majority of the shares entitled to vote not owned by such 5% or greater stockholder are also required to approve any such transaction. • Amendments to our certificate of incorporation require supermajority voting. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that make its amendment require the affirmative vote of both 75% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote and a majority of the shares entitled to vote not owned by any person who may hold 50% or more of our shares unless the proposed amendment was previously recommended to our stockholders by an affirmative vote of 75% of our Board. This provision makes it more difficult to implement a change to our certificate of incorporation that stockholders might otherwise consider to be in their best interests without approval of our Board. 9 Table of Contents • Amendments to our bylaws require supermajority voting. Although our Board of Directors is permitted to amend our bylaws at any time, our stockholders may only amend our bylaws upon the affirmative vote of both 75% of our outstanding shares entitled to vote and a majority of the shares entitled to vote not owned by any person who owns 50% or more of our shares. This provision makes it more difficult for our stockholders to implement a change they may consider to be in their best interests without approval of our Board. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 