ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to general investment risks and the other information contained in this report or incorporated by reference, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, before investing in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks described below. Any of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of these risks and uncertainties is realized, the trading price of our common shares or the value of our other securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Risks Related To Our Business and Market The continued downturn in our real estate market areas and weakness in the economy could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Our retail banking and lending are concentrated in western Washington and northwest Oregon. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial condition and earnings largely depend upon economic conditions in these areas, although they also depend on economic conditions in other areas. We are currently operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and locally. Like other financial institutions, we are being affected by sharp declines in the real estate market, constrained financial markets and a weak economy. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers and demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and earnings, increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. We are experiencing deterioration in our loan portfolio, centered in our real estate construction and land development loans. At December 31, 2008, approximately 86.1% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans secured by real estate, including construction, land development, completed lots and residential real estate loans. We are experiencing deterioration in our loan portfolio, centered in our real estate construction and land development loans. Many of these loans are maturing and classified as nonperforming assets while we work with the borrowers to maximize our recovery. If loan payments from borrowers are over 90 days past due, the loans are placed on nonaccrual status, thereby reducing and/or reversing previously accrued interest income. During 2008, our nonaccrual loans increased significantly, from $20.9 million to $435.2 million, primarily as a result of construction and land development loans that we are choosing not to renew in order to keep all of our legal remedy options available. The contraction or expansion of our nonaccrual loan portfolio and other real estate owned properties in future periods will depend upon our ongoing collection efforts and changes in market conditions. Additional information regarding credit risk is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Loans.” Due to unforeseen circumstances, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 2.98%. The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in our real estate markets and interest rates that are beyond our control. Our underwriting policies, credit monitoring processes and risk management systems and controls may not prevent unexpected losses. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any required increase in our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Additional information regarding the allowance for loan losses is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Allowance for Loan Losses.” -13- Table of Contents Defaults and related losses in our real estate construction and land development loan portfolios could result in a significant increase in other real estate owned (“OREO”) balances and the number of properties to be disposed of, which would adversely affect our financial results. As part of our collection process for all nonperforming loans, we may foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for the loan. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as other real estate owned (“OREO”) property. We expect to take additional properties into OREO. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties and, in certain cases, complete construction of improvements prior to sale. Any decrease in sale prices on properties may lead to OREO write-downs with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We expect that our earnings over the next several quarters could be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in real estate during the period they are held in OREO. We will also be at risk of further declines in real estate prices in the market areas in which we conduct our lending business. We may need to raise additional capital which may not be available or may adversely affect existing shareholders. Alternatively, we may have to take other steps to preserve capital. We may need to raise additional capital in the future through financings to maintain desired levels of capital ratios, to improve our financial condition, or to increase liquidity available for operations. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our existing shareholders could result and, in any case, securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our current shareholders. Debt financing could also negatively affect future earnings due to interest charges. If additional capital is projected to be needed and is unavailable on acceptable terms through available financing sources, we may need to take further steps to preserve capital, including further curtailing our lending activities and new loan commitments, selling certain assets, increasing loan participations, and/or other steps. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Corporation is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, its holding company regulator, and Frontier Bank is subject to extensive supervision and examination by the Washington Department of Financial Institutions, its chartering authority, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), as insurer of Frontier Bank’s deposits. Such regulations and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and our depositors, not our shareholders. For example, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board recently issued joint Guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices that sets forth supervisory criteria to assist bank examiners in identifying banks with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The Guidance applies to Frontier Bank, based on our current loan portfolio, and we expect that our business and operations will be subject to enhanced regulatory review for the foreseeable future. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action may have a material impact on our operations. Market and other constraints on our real estate construction loan origination volume are expected to lead to decreases in our interest and fee income that are not expected to be fully offset by reductions in our noninterest expenses. Due to existing conditions in housing markets in the areas where we operate, the recession and other factors, we project our real estate construction loan originations to be materially constrained in 2009. This will lower interest income and fees generated from this part of our business. Unless this revenue decline is offset by other areas of our operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expense. We expect that it will be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term to completely offset expected declines in our interest income. -14- Table of Contents The value of certain securities in our portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The market for certain securities held within our portfolio has become more volatile over the past year. These volatile markets may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income, equity and capital ratios. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including but not limited to; general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely effected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. Additional information regarding how we manage our interest rate risk is included in Item 7A of this report captioned “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from Frontier Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at the Bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of weak economic conditions in the western Washington and northwest Oregon markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the turmoil currently faced by financial institutions and the continued deterioration in credit markets and the economy. Additional information regarding liquidity risk is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity Resources and Capital Requirements.” Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Frontier Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Frontier Bank. The availability of dividends from Frontier Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible; depending upon the financial condition of Frontier Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. If Frontier Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Frontier Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in Item 1 of this report captioned “Regulation and Supervision.” -15- Table of Contents Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive. We compete in our market areas with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business and deposits, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our results of operations depend upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase or maintain our interest earning assets. In that regard, the adverse economic conditions that began in 2007 and that have continued into 2009 have significantly reduced our origination of new loans, and we cannot assure you that our total loans or assets will increase or not decline in 2009. We will be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) premiums in the future. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 through December 31, 2009. These developments will cause the premiums assessed to us by the FDIC to increase. Under the final rule adopted December 16, 2008, Frontier Bank’s assessment rate will increase from 5 to 7 basis points per $100 of deposits to approximately 14 to 30 basis points in 2009. The increased deposit insurance premiums are expected to result in a significant increase in our noninterest expense, which will have a material impact on our results of operations beginning in 2009. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to operational risk, which may result in incurring financial and reputation losses. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, the risk of operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Given our high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully corrected. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering with or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may be subject to disruptions of our systems, arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. -16- Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. Approximately 86.1% of our outstanding loan portfolio, at December 31, 2008, was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third-parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third-parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel and the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of our market and years of industry experience. Our earnings may be affected by changes in accounting principles and tax laws. Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results. Although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance or regulatory measures. We are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. Failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, interrupt our information systems, and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile and the value of our other securities may decline as a result of adverse changes in our financial performance, the economy, market conditions and other factors. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common shares may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common shares and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors, including those identified above in “Forward-Looking Statements.” Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -17- Table of Contents Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system or economy or benefit us. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. Subsequently, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, to stimulate the economy. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these programs and legislation or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, or on the economy. The failure of any such program or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions and the national and regional economy is expected to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of our common stock. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Shortly following the enactment of EESA, the Treasury created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier I capital, and the FDIC approved the temporary liquidity guaranty program, which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by permitting the FDIC to (1) guarantee certain newly-issued senior unsecured debt issued by participating institutions and (2) fully insure noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts held at participating FDIC-insured institutions. There can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on us – or whether (or to what extent) we will be able to benefit from such programs. We expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury under the EESA or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Shareholders’ interests may be diluted by future equity offerings or transactions. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if the Corporation’s or Frontier Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock, debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Holders of our common shares are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. You may not receive any dividends on Frontier common shares. Holders of our common shares are entitled to receive dividends only when, and if declared by our board of directors. The board of directors recently decided to suspend the payment of dividends on our common shares indefinitely in order to preserve capital. -18- Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 