ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to general investment risks and the other information contained in this report or incorporated by reference, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, before investing in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks described below. Any of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of these risks and uncertainties is realized, the trading price of our common shares or the value of our other securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Risks Related To Our Business and Market Our capital position has deteriorated and we are now categorized by the FDIC as critically undercapitalized, and subject to an FDIC Directive to recapitalize the Bank. The Corporation’s and the Bank’s capital positions have deteriorated and the Bank is now considered to be “critically undercapitalized” under the prompt corrective action provision of the FDI Act and related regulations, according to the FDIC Directive. Refer to Item 1 of this report captioned “Regulation and Supervision” for further discussion. On January 15, 2010, the Bank filed a capital restoration plan with the FDIC, but the FDIC subsequently informed the Bank that the plan was not acceptable. The prompt corrective action provisions of the FDI Act generally require the appropriate federal banking agency (in the case of the Bank, the FDIC) no later than 90 days after a bank becomes critically undercapitalized to place the bank into receivership or conservatorship or to take such other action that the agency determines would better achieve the purpose of the prompt corrective action provisions. Such an action would have a material and adverse effect on the value of our stock and would result in it having little or no value. Our ability to raise additional capital is contingent on the current capital markets and on our financial performance. Available capital markets are not currently available and we have not been able to raise the required capital to date and cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital on any terms. As a result of the FDIC Directive, the significant operating losses incurred in 2009 and 2008, and our needs to raise additional capital, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, contains an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. The 2009 financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties, which could affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Restrictions imposed by regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on us and failure to comply with these regulatory actions could result in further regulatory action or restrictions. The business and operations of the Corporation and our subsidiary, Frontier Bank, are currently subject to regulatory actions, which for example, generally prohibit us from paying dividends, repurchasing stock, retaining new directors or senior managers or changing the duties of senior management, paying management or consulting fees or other funds to the Corporation, and extending additional credit with respect to nonperforming and adversely classified loans, which management believes complicates the workout of troubled loans. We are also required to raise additional capital. These and other regulatory actions are described in more detail in Item 1 of this report under “Regulation and Supervision.” Management believes that it is in compliance with all the requirements of these regulatory actions, other than the requirement to recapitalize the Bank. These regulatory actions and any future actions could continue to adversely affect our earnings, business and operations. In addition, failure to comply with these regulatory actions or any future actions could result in further regulatory actions or restrictions, including monetary penalties and the potential closure of Frontier Bank. The downturn in the real estate market and weakness in the economy continue to adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. We are currently operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and in our Washington and Oregon markets. Like many other financial institutions, we are being affected by sharp declines in residential and commercial real estate values, with rising foreclosures and unemployment, and constrained financial markets. Continued declines in residential and commercial real estate values and home sales and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment and job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers and demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our financial condition and earnings, increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. -15- Table of Contents FRONTIER FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY We have been experiencing significant deterioration in our loan portfolio, centered in our residential construction and land development loans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 84.0% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans secured by real estate, made up of 33.7% commercial real estate loans, 15.6% construction loans, 14.8% term 1-4 family residential loans, 11.1% land development loans and 8.8% completed lot loans. We have been experiencing deterioration in our loan portfolio, centered in our residential construction and land development loans. Many of these loans are maturing and classified as nonperforming assets while we work with borrowers to maximize our recovery. If loan payments from borrowers are over 90 days past due, or sooner if normal repayment cannot resume, the loans are placed on nonaccrual status, thereby reducing and/or reversing previously accrued interest income. Our nonperforming loans increased significantly over the past year, from $435.2 million to $705.2 million, $426.8 million of which were residential construction and land development loans, which represent 55.6% of our residential construction and land development loans. The contraction or expansion of our nonaccrual loan portfolio and other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties in future periods will depend upon our ongoing collection efforts and changes in market conditions. We have a dedicated team of 42 employees focused on the management of problem loans, but there is no guarantee that this team will be able to effectively manage the amount of problem loans we may encounter in the future. Additional information regarding credit risk is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Loans.” Due to unforeseen circumstances and/or changes in estimates, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. An essential element of our business is to make loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses are assessed each quarter by management, and were subject to recent examinations by our federal and state regulators. As of December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses increased to $151.3 million, or 5.27% of our total loans of $2.87 billion, as a result of significant additional provisions for loan losses and charge-offs in 2009. See “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Allowance for Loan Losses.” The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance as well as the appropriate amount of loan charge-offs (net of loan recoveries) is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions and there may be a range of potential estimates. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in our real estate markets and interest rates that are beyond our control. Our underwriting policies, credit monitoring processes and risk management systems and controls may not prevent unexpected losses. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any such additional loan losses, should they occur, would adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. -16- Table of Contents FRONTIER FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY Defaults and related losses in our residential construction and land development loan portfolio could result in a significant increase in OREO balances and the number of properties to be disposed of, which would adversely affect our financial results. As part of our collection process for all nonperforming real estate loans, we may foreclose on and take title to the property serving as collateral for the loan. Real estate owned by us and not used in the ordinary course of our operations is referred to as other real estate owned (“OREO”) property. We expect to take additional properties into OREO. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incurs costs to manage and dispose of the properties and, in certain cases, complete construction of improvements prior to sale. Any decrease in sale prices on properties may lead to OREO write-downs with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. Our management expects that earnings over the next several quarters could be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in real estate during the period they are held in OREO. The management and oversight of OREO is time consuming and can be complex and can require significant resources of our management and employees. We will also be at risk of further declines in real estate prices in the market areas in which we conduct our lending business. We may have continuing losses and continuing variation in our quarterly results. We reported net losses of $295.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. This loss primarily resulted from our high level of nonperforming assets and the resultant reduction in interest income and increased provision for loan losses. We may continue to suffer further losses as a result of credit-related factors. In addition, several other factors affecting our business can cause significant variations in our quarterly results of operations. In particular, variations in the volume of our loan originations and sales, the differences between our costs of funds and the average interest rate earned on investments and other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our future earnings may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory actions taken against us, as well as those legal actions that Frontier has and may pursue. Frontier and Frontier Bank are involved in the regulatory, collection and potential foreclosure actions and proceedings referenced in “Item 3: Legal Proceedings,” which, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows and our ability to raise capital. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect our results of operations until they are resolved. Our profitability and the value of shareholders’ investments may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels in the financial services area. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not stockholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. For example, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve recently issued joint Guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices that sets forth supervisory criteria to assist bank examiners in identifying banks with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The Guidance applies to Frontier Bank, based on our current loan portfolio, and our management expects that our business and operations will be subject to enhanced regulatory review for the foreseeable future. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. -17- Table of Contents FRONTIER FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY Market and other constraints on our construction loan origination volume are expected to lead to decreases in our interest and fee income that are not expected to be fully offset by reductions in our noninterest expenses. Due to existing conditions in housing markets in the areas where we operate, the recession and other factors, we project construction loan originations to be materially constrained in 2010 and beyond. Additionally, management’s revised business plan will de-emphasize the origination of construction loans. This will lower interest income and fees generated from this part of our business. Unless this revenue decline is offset by other areas of operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expense. We expect that it will be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term to completely offset expected declines in our interest income. In that regard, the adverse economic conditions that began in 2007 and that have continued into 2010 have significantly reduced our origination of all new loans, and management cannot give assurance that our total loans or assets will increase or not decline in 2010. The value of certain securities in our portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. The market for certain securities held within our portfolio has become more volatile over the past year. These volatile markets may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse affect on our net income, equity and capital ratios. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including but not limited to; general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. Additional information regarding how we manage our interest rate risk is included in Item 7A of this report captioned “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Concern of customers over the safety of their deposits may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the safety of their deposits and the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may not believe Frontier Bank is a safe place to keep their deposit accounts and they may remove their deposit accounts. Additionally, customers may withdraw deposits from Frontier Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at Frontier Bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs, liquidity and net income. We depend on key personnel for success. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan and lease losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our current executive officers and other key personnel. We have an experienced management team that the Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing our operations. However, losses of or changes in our current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt our business and could adversely affect financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may not be successful in retaining our current executive officers or other key personnel. -18- Table of Contents FRONTIER FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of weak economic conditions in the western Washington and northwest Oregon markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the turmoil currently faced by financial institutions and the continued deterioration in credit markets and the economy. Additional information regarding liquidity risk is included on this report under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity Resources and Capital Requirements.” Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Frontier Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Frontier Bank. The availability of dividends from Frontier Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations, and under the FDIC Order the Bank is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of the FDIC and the DFI. It is possible; depending upon the financial condition of Frontier Bank and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. If Frontier Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Frontier Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in Item 1 of this report captioned “Regulation and Supervision.” Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive. We compete in our market areas with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business and deposits, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our results of operations depend upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase or maintain our interest earning assets. In that regard, the adverse economic conditions that began in 2007 and that have continued into 2010 have significantly reduced our origination of new loans, and there is no assurance that our total loans or assets will increase or not decline in 2010. Further increases in FDIC insurance premiums or special assessments could adversely impact our earnings. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $1.9 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. In addition, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate and the rate is scheduled to increase again by 3 basis points in 2011. Should the FDIC find it necessary to impose any further special assessments or further increase assessment rates, or to revise the risk-based assessment system, our FDIC general insurance premium expense could increase compared to prior periods. -19- Table of Contents FRONTIER FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to operational risk, which may result in incurring financial and reputation losses. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, the risk of operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Given our high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully corrected. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering with or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may be subject to disruptions of our systems, arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. Approximately 84.0% of our outstanding loan portfolio, at December 31, 2009, was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third-parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third-parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our earnings may be affected by changes in accounting principles and tax laws. Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could have a significant adverse affect on our reported financial results. Although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance or regulatory measures. We are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. Failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -20- Table of Contents FRONTIER FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, interrupt our information systems, and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse affect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With Our Securities The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile and the value of our other securities may decline as a result of adverse changes in our financial performance, the economy, market conditions and other factors. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility in recent years. As a result, the market price of our common shares may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common shares and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors, including those identified above in “Forward-Looking Statements.” Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system or economy or benefit us. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. Subsequently, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, to stimulate the economy. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these programs and legislation or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, or on the economy. The failure of any such program or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions and the national and regional economy is expected to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of our common stock. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Shortly following the enactment of EESA, the Treasury created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier I capital, and the FDIC approved the temporary liquidity guaranty program, which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by permitting the FDIC to (1) guarantee certain newly-issued senior unsecured debt issued by participating institutions and (2) fully insure noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts held at participating FDIC-insured institutions. There can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on us – or whether (or to what extent) we will be able to benefit from such programs. We expect to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the existing financial crisis, and there will be additional requirements and conditions imposed on us to the extent that we participate in any of the programs established or to be established by the Treasury under the EESA or by the federal bank regulatory agencies. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Shareholders’ interests may be diluted by future equity offerings or transactions. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of common stock, debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. In the event of liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Holders of our common shares are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. -21- Table of Contents FRONTIER FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY Shareholders’ may not receive any dividends on Frontier common shares. On December 19, 2008, we announced that we had suspended payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Commencing with the interest payments due February 23, 2009, we exercised our right to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures related to trust preferred securities. We may not pay any cash dividends on our common stock until we are current on interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures. In addition, cash dividends from the Bank are the primary source of funds for payment of cash dividends to our shareholders, and under the FDIC Order the Bank is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of the FDIC and the DFI. We are also prohibited from paying dividends under the FRB Written Agreement without the prior consent of the Reserve Bank and the DFI. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 