Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership and Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Index to Exhibits Signatures and Certifications 2 PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS A. General Development of Business and History On January 7, 1983, Penns Woods Bancorp, Inc. (the “Company”) was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a bank holding company. The Jersey Shore State Bank (the “Bank”) became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and each outstanding share of Bank common stock was converted into one share of Company common stock. This transaction was approved by the shareholders of the Bank on April 11, 1983 and was officially effective on July 12, 1983. The Company’s two other wholly-owned subsidiaries are Woods Real Estate Development Company, Inc. and Woods Investment Company, Inc. The Company’s business has consisted primarily of managing and supervising the Bank, and its principal source of income has been dividends paid by the Bank and Woods Investment Company, Inc. The Bank is engaged in commercial and retail which includes the acceptance of time, savings, and demand deposits, the funding of commercial, consumer, and mortgage loans, and safe deposit services. Utilizing a thirteen branch office network, ATMs, internet, and telephone banking delivery channels, the Bank delivers its products and services to the communities it resides in. In October 2000, the Bank acquired The M Group, Inc. D/B/A The Comprehensive Financial Group (“The M Group”). The M Group, which operates as a subsidiary of the Bank, offers insurance and securities brokerage services. Securities are offered by The M Group through ING Financial Partners, Inc., a registered broker-dealer. Neither the Company nor the Bank anticipates that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will have any material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or on its competitive position. The Bank is not dependent on a single customer or a few customers, the loss of whom would have a material effect on the business of the Bank. The Bank employed 187 persons as of December 31, 2006 in either a full-time or part-time capacity. The Company does not have any employees. The principal officers of the Bank also serve as officers of the Company. Woods Investment Company, Inc., a Delaware holding company, maintains an investment portfolio that is managed for total return and to fund dividend payments to the Company. Woods Real Estate Development Company, Inc. serves the Company through its acquisition and ownership of certain properties utilized by the Bank. A copy of the Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct for the Corporation can be requested from Brian Knepp, Vice President of Finance, at 300 Market Street, Williamsport, PA 17701. A link with access to the Corporation’s SEC 10K filings, annual reports, and quarterly filings can be found at www.jssb.com. B. Regulation and Supervision The Company is also subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”) and to supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). The Bank is subject to the supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), as its primary federal regulator and as the insurer of the Bank’s deposits. The Bank is also regulated and examined by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking (the “Department”). The insurance activities of The M Group are subject to regulation by the insurance departments of the various states in which The M Group conducts business including principally the Pennsylvania Department of Insurance. The securities brokerage activities of The M Group are subject to regulation by federal and state securities commissions. The FRB has issued regulations under the BHCA that require a bank holding company to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks. As a result, the FRB, pursuant to such regulations, may require the Company to 3 stand ready to use its resources to provide adequate capital funds to the Bank during periods of financial stress or adversity. The BHCA requires the Company to secure the prior approval of the FRB before it can acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or acquire ownership or control of 5% or more of any voting shares of any bank. Such a transaction would also require approval of the Department. A bank holding company is prohibited under the BHCA from engaging in, or acquiring direct or indirect control of, more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in non-banking activities unless the FRB, by order or regulation, has found such activities to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Under the BHCA, the FRB has the authority to require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of a non-bank subsidiary (other than a non-bank subsidiary of a bank) upon the FRB’s determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness and stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company. Bank holding companies are required to comply with the FRB’s risk-based capital guidelines. The risk-based capital rules are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Currently, the required minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet activities, such as standby letters of credit) is 8%. At least half of the total capital is required to be Tier 1 capital, consisting principally of common shareholders’ equity, less certain intangible assets. The remainder (“Tier 2 capital”) may consist of certain preferred stock, a limited amount of subordinated debt, certain hybrid capital instruments and other debt securities, 45% of net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities, and a limited amount of the general loan loss allowance. The risk-based capital guidelines are required to take adequate account of interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk, and risks of nontraditional activities. In addition to the risk-based capital guidelines, the FRB requires each bank holding company to comply with the leverage ratio, under which the bank holding company must maintain a minimum level of Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets of 3% for those bank holding companies which have the highest regulatory examination ratings and are not contemplating or experiencing significant growth or expansion. All other bank holding companies are expected to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4% to 5%. The Bank is subject to similar capital requirements adopted by the FDIC. C. Regulation of the Bank From time to time, various types of federal and state legislation have been proposed that could result in additional regulation of, and restrictions of, the business of the Bank. It cannot be predicted whether any such legislation will be adopted or how such legislation would affect the business of the Bank. As a consequence of the extensive regulation of commercial banking activities in the United States, the Bank’s business is particularly susceptible to being affected by federal legislation and regulations that may increase the costs of doing business. Prompt Corrective Action - The FDIC has specified the levels at which an insured institution will be considered “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” and “critically undercapitalized.” In the event an institution’s capital deteriorates to the “undercapitalized” category or below, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”) and FDIC regulations prescribe an increasing amount of regulatory intervention, including: (1) the institution of a capital restoration plan by a bank and a guarantee of the plan by a parent institution; and (2) the placement of a hold on increases in assets, number of branches, or lines of business. If capital has reached the significantly or critically undercapitalized levels, further material restrictions can be imposed, including restrictions on interest payable on accounts, dismissal of management and (in critically undercapitalized situations) appointment of a receiver. For well-capitalized institutions, the FDIA provides authority for regulatory intervention where the institution is deemed to be engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or receives a less than satisfactory examination report rating for asset quality, management, earnings or liquidity. Deposit Insurance — Historically, there were two deposit insurance funds administered by the FDIC - the Savings Association Insurance Fund (“SAIF”) and the Bank Insurance Fund (“BIF”). The Bank’s deposits were insured under the BIF; however, the deposits assumed by the Bank in connection with the merger of Lock Haven Savings Bank were treated and assessed as SAIF-insured deposits. The FDIC has implemented a risk-related premium schedule for all insured depository institutions that results in the assessment of premiums based on capital and supervisory measure. Under the risk-related premium schedule, the FDIC assigns, on a semiannual basis, each institution to one of three capital groups (well-capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized) and further assigns such institution to one of three subgroups 4 within a capital group. The institution’s subgroup assignment is based upon the FDIC’s judgment of the institution’s strength in light of supervisory evaluations, including examination reports, statistical analyses, and other information relevant to gauging the risk posed by the institution. Only institutions with a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 6.0% or greater and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, are assigned to the well-capitalized group. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank’s ratios were well above required minimum ratios. The assessment rates range from zero for those institutions with the least risk, to $0.27 for every $100 of insured deposits for institutions deemed to have the highest risk. The Bank is in the category of institutions that presently pay nothing for deposit insurance. While the Bank presently pays no premiums for deposit insurance, it is subject to assessments to pay the interest on Financing Corporation (“FICO”) bonds. FICO was created by Congress to issue bonds to finance the resolution of failed thrift institutions. The current annual FICO assessment for the Bank (and all banks) is $.0132 per $100 of BIF deposits. In February 2006, deposit insurance modernization legislation was enacted. The legislation merged the BIF and SAIF into a single Deposit Insurance Fund, increased deposit insurance coverage for IRAs to $250,000, provided for the future increase of deposit insurance on all accounts by authorizing the FDIC to index the coverage to the rate of inflation, authorized the FDIC to set the reserve ratio of the combined Deposit Insurance Fund at a level between 1.15% and 1.50%, and permited the FDIC to establish assessments to be paid by insured banks to maintain the minimum ratios. Other Legislation The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (“FACT”) was signed into law on December 4, 2003. This law extends the previously existing Fair Credit Reporting Act. New provisions added by FACT address the growing problem of identity theft. Consumers will be able to initiate a fraud alert when they are victims of identity theft, and credit reporting agencies will have additional duties. Consumers will also be entitled to obtain free credit reports, and will be granted certain additional privacy rights. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted to enhance penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures under the federal securities laws. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally applies to all companies, including the Company, that file or are required to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. The legislation includes provisions, among other things, governing the services that can be provided by a public company’s independent auditors and the procedures for approving such services, requiring the chief executive officer and principal accounting officer to certify certain matters relating to the company’s periodic filings under the Exchange Act, requiring expedited filings of reports by insiders of their securities transactions and containing other provisions relating to insider conflicts of interest, increasing disclosure requirements relating to critical financial accounting policies and their application, increasing penalties for securities law violations, and creating a new public accounting oversight board, a regulatory body subject to SEC jurisdiction with broad powers to set auditing, quality control, and ethics standards for accounting firms. In response to the legislation, the national securities exchanges and NASDAQ have adopted new rules relating to certain matters, including the independence of members of a company’s audit committee as a condition to listing or continued listing. In addition, Congress is often considering some financial industry legislation. The Company cannot predict how any new legislation, or new rules adopted by the federal banking agencies, may affect its business in the future. In addition to federal banking law, the Bank is subject to the Pennsylvania Banking Code. The Banking Code was amended in late 2000 to provide more complete “parity” in the powers of state-chartered institutions compared to national banks and federal savings banks doing business in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania banks have the same ability to form financial subsidiaries authorized by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, as do national banks. Environmental Laws Environmentally related hazards have become a source of high risk and potential liability for financial institutions relating to their loans. Environmentally contaminated properties owned by an institution’s borrowers may result in a drastic reduction in the value of the collateral securing the institution’s loans to such borrowers, high environmental clean up costs to the borrower affecting its ability to repay the loans, the subordination of any lien in favor of the institution to a state or 5 federal lien securing clean up costs, and liability to the institution for clean up costs if it forecloses on the contaminated property or becomes involved in the management of the borrower. The Company is not aware of any borrower who is currently subject to any environmental investigation or clean up proceeding which is likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Effect of Government Monetary Policies The earnings of the Company are and will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States Government and its agencies. The monetary policies of the FRB have had, and will likely continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The FRB has a major effect upon the levels of bank loans, investments, and deposits through its open market operations in the United States Government securities and through its regulation of, among other things, the discount rate on borrowing of member banks and the reserve requirements against member bank deposits. It is not possible to predict the nature and impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. DESCRIPTION OF BANK History and Business Jersey Shore State Bank (“Bank”) was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a state bank in 1934 and became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company on July 12, 1983. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank had total assets of $576,896,000; total shareholders’ equity of $57,789,000 and total deposits of $396,204,000. The Bank’s deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the maximum amount provided under current law. The Bank engages in business as a commercial bank, doing business at several locations in Lycoming, Clinton, and Centre Counties, Pennsylvania. The Bank offers insurance, securities brokerage services, annuity and mutual fund investment products, and financial planning through its wholly owned subsidiary, The M Group, Inc. D/B/A The Comprehensive Financial Group. Services offered by the Bank include accepting time, demand and savings deposits including Super NOW accounts, statement savings accounts, money market accounts, fixed rate certificates of deposit, and club accounts. Its services also include making secured and unsecured business and consumer loan that include financing commercial transactions as well as construction and residential mortgage loans and revolving credit loans with overdraft protection. The Bank’s loan portfolio mix can be classified into four principal categories. These are real estate, agricultural, commercial, and consumer. Real estate loans can be further segmented into construction and land development, farmland, one-to-four family residential, multi-family, and commercial or industrial. Qualified borrowers are defined by policy and our underwriting standards. Owner provided equity requirements range from 20% to 30% with a first lien status required. Terms are generally restricted to between 10 and 20 years with the exception of construction and land development, which are limited to one to five years. Real estate appraisals, property construction verifications, and site visitations comply with policy and industry regulatory standards. Prospective residential mortgage customer’s repayment ability is determined from information contained in the application and recent income tax returns. Emphasis is on credit, employment, income, and residency verification. Broad hazard insurance is always required and flood insurance where applicable. In the case of construction mortgages, builders risk insurance is requested. Agricultural loans for the purchase or improvement of real estate must meet the Bank’s real estate underwriting criteria. The only permissible exception is when a Farmers Home Loan Administration guaranty is obtained. Agricultural loans made for the purchase of equipment are usually payable in five years, but never more than seven, depending upon the useful life of the purchased asset. Minimum borrower equity ranges from 20% to 30%. Livestock financing criteria depends upon the nature of the operation. Agricultural loans are also made for crop production purposes. Such loans are structured to repay within the production cycle and not carried over into a subsequent year. 6 Commercial loans are made for the acquisition and improvement of real estate, purchase of equipment, and for working capital purposes on a seasonal or revolving basis. General purpose working capital loans are also available with repayment expected within one year. Equipment loans are generally amortized over three to seven years, with an owner equity contribution required of at least 20% of the purchase price. Insurance coverage with the Bank as loss payee is required, especially in the case where the equipment is rolling stock. It is also a general policy to collateralize non-real estate loans with the asset purchased and, dependant upon loan terms, junior liens are filed on other available assets. Financial information required on all commercial mortgages includes the most current three years balance sheets and income statements and projections on income to be developed through the project. In the case of corporations and partnerships, the principals are often asked to indebt themselves personally as well. Seasonal and revolving lines of credit are offered for working capital purposes. Collateral for such a loan includes the pledge of inventory and/or receivables. Drawing availability is usually 50% of inventory and 75% of eligible receivables. Eligible receivables are defined as invoices less than 90 days delinquent. Exclusive reliance is very seldom placed on such collateral; therefore, other lienable assets are also taken into the collateral pool. Where reliance is placed on inventory and accounts receivable, the applicant must provide financial information including agings on a monthly basis. In addition, the guaranty of the principals is usually obtained. Letter of Credit availability is limited to standbys where the customer is well known to the Bank. Credit criteria is the same as that utilized in making a direct loan. Collateral is obtained in most cases, and whenever the expiration date is beyond one year. Consumer loan products include second mortgages, automobile financing, small loan requests, overdraft check lines, and PHEAA referral loans. Our policy includes standards used in the industry on debt service ratios and terms are consistent with prudent underwriting standards and the use of proceeds. Verifications are made of employment and residency, along with credit history. Second mortgages are confined to equity borrowing and home improvements. Terms are generally ten years or less and rates are fixed. Loan to collateral value criteria is 80% or less and verifications are made to determine values. Automobile financing is generally restricted to five years and done on a direct basis. The Bank, as a practice, does not floor plan and therefore does not discount dealer paper. Small loan requests are to accommodate personal needs such as the purchase of small appliances or for the payment of taxes. Overdraft check lines are limited to $5,000 or less. The Bank’s investment portfolio is analyzed and priced on a monthly basis. Investments are made in U.S. Treasuries, U.S. Agency issues, bank qualified municipal bonds, corporate bonds, and corporate stocks which consist of Pennsylvania bank stocks. Bonds with BAA or better ratings are used, unless a local issue is purchased that has a lesser or no rating. Factors taken into consideration when investments are purchased include liquidity, the Company’s tax position, tax equivalent yield, third party investment ratings, and the policies of the Asset/Liability Committee. The banking environment in Lycoming, Clinton, and Centre Counties, Pennsylvania is highly competitive. The Bank operates thirteen full service offices in these markets and competes for loans and deposits with numerous commercial banks, savings and loan associations, and other financial institutions. The economic base of the region is developed around small business, health care, educational facilities (college and public schools), light manufacturing industries, and agriculture. The Bank has a relatively stable deposit base and no material amount of deposits is obtained from a single depositor or group of depositors, excluding public entities that account for approximately 10% of total deposits. Although the Bank has regular opportunities to bid on pools of funds of $100,000 or more in the hands of municipalities, hospitals, and others, it does not rely on these monies to fund loans or intermediate or longer-term investments. The Bank has not experienced any significant seasonal fluctuations in the amount of its deposits. Supervision and Regulation The earnings of the Bank are affected by the policies of regulatory authorities including the FDIC and the FRB. An important function of the FRB is to regulate the money supply and interest rates. Among the instruments used to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. Government Securities, changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits, and limitations on interest rates that member banks may pay on time and savings deposits. 7 These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments on deposits, and their use may also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for deposits. The policies and regulations of the FRB have had and will probably continue to have a significant effect on the Bank’s deposits, loans and investment growth, as well as the rate of interest earned and paid, and are expected to affect the Bank’s operation in the future. The effect of such policies and regulations upon the future business and earnings of the Bank cannot accurately be predicted. ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The following sets forth several risk factors that are unique to the Company. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings but will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of our investment portfolio. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may adversely affect our business. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could cause us to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services locally. Therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. Federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. Many of our loans are secured, in whole or in part, with real estate collateral which is subject to declines in value. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of a borrower, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral. Real estate values and the real estate market are generally affected by, among other things, changes in local, regional or national economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. The real 8 estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate prices in our markets decline, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. If we are required to liquidate real estate collateral securing loans during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, leasing companies, insurance companies, and money market mutual funds. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our principal service area. Our competitors may have greater resources, higher lending limits, or larger branch systems than we do. Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions. As a result, those nonbank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively. We may be adversely affected by government regulation. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key commercial loan officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or commercial loan officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we could be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking, and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. 9 An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commonly referred to as the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 