Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and our industry are affected by cyclical and global economic factors, including the risk of a prolonged recession. Our financial results are substantially dependent upon overall economic conditions in the United States and in Europe. A prolonged or a deepening recession in the United States, or globally, could substantially further decrease the demand for our products and services below current levels and adversely affect our business. Our industry has historically been vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product and service pricing during prolonged periods of economic downturn such as at present. Recessions and other periods of economic dislocation typically result in a lower level of discretionary income for consumers. To the extent discretionary income declines, consumers may be more likely to reduce discretionary spending. This could result in our salon customers foregoing salon treatments or using home treatments as a substitute. It could also result in our hair restoration patients decreasing the amount spent on hair restoration treatments. 22 Table of Contents The current economic downturn has affected our financial results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Our comparable same-store sales results for the twelve months ended June 30, 2009 declined 3.1 percent compared to the twelve months ended June 30, 2008. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 the fair value of our common stock declined such that it began trading below our book value per share. Also, we impaired $41.7 million of goodwill associated with our salon concepts in the United Kingdom and $25.7 million of our investment in Provalliance during fiscal year 2009. If the economic downturn continues to result in negative same-store sales and we are unable to offset the impact with operational savings, our financial results may be further affected. We may be required to take additional impairment charges and to impair certain long-lived assets, goodwill and investments, and such impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. The concepts that have the highest likelihood of impairment are Regis and Hair Restoration Centers. Changes in the general economic environment may impact our business and results of operations. Changes to the United States, Canadian, United Kingdom and other European economies have an impact on our business. As a result of our entrance into the Asian market, changes in the Asian economies may also impact our business. General economic factors that are beyond our control, such as interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, tax rates and policy, energy costs, unemployment trends, and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending, may impact our business. In particular, visitation patterns to our salons and hair restoration centers can be adversely impacted by increases in unemployment rates and decreases in discretionary income levels. If we continue to have negative same-store sales our business and results of operations may be affected. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales, as well as both gross margins and operating margins. A variety of factors affect comparable same-store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, changes in our product assortment, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations. Our comparable same-store sales results excluding the Trade Secret salons presented within discontinued operations for the year ended June 30, 2009 declined 3.1 percent compared to the year ended June 30, 2008. If we are unable to improve our comparable same-store sales on a long-term basis or offset the impact with operational savings, our financial results may be affected. Furthermore, continued declines in same-store sales performance may cause us to be in default of certain covenants in our financing arrangements. Changes in our key relationships may adversely affect our operating results. We maintain key relationships with certain companies, including Wal-Mart. Termination or modification of any of these relationships, including Wal-Mart, could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material and adverse impact on our business, our operating results and our ability to grow. Changes in fashion trends may impact our revenue. Changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends can have an impact on our financial performance. For example, trends in wearing longer hair may reduce the number of visits to, and therefore, sales at our salons. Changes in regulatory and statutory laws may result in increased costs to our business. With approximately 12,900 locations and 59,000 employees worldwide, our financial results can be adversely impacted by regulatory or statutory changes in laws. Due to the number of people we employ, laws that increase minimum wage rates or increase costs to provide employee benefits may result in additional costs to our company. Compliance with new, complex and changing laws may cause our expenses to increase. In addition, any non-compliance with these laws could result in fines, product 23 Table of Contents recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to laws that affect the franchisor-franchisee relationship. If we are not able to successfully compete in our business segments, our financial results may be affected. Competition on a market by market basis remains strong. Therefore, our ability to raise prices in certain markets can be adversely impacted by this competition. If we are not able to raise prices, our ability to grow same-store sales and increase our revenue and earnings may be impaired. If our joint ventures are unsuccessful our financial results may be affected. We have entered into joint venture arrangements with other companies in the hair salon and beauty school businesses in order to maintain and expand our operations in the United States, Asia and continental Europe. If our joint venture partners are unwilling or unable to devote their financial resources or marketing and operational capabilities to our joint venture businesses, or if any of our joint ventures are terminated, we may not be able to realize anticipated revenues and profits in the countries where our joint ventures operate and our business could be materially adversely affected. If our joint venture arrangements are not successful, we may have a limited ability to terminate or modify these arrangements. If any of our joint ventures are terminated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new joint venture partners to continue the activities of the terminated joint venture or to operate independently in the countries in which the terminated joint venture conducted business. Changes in manufacturers' choice of distribution channels may negatively affect our revenues. The retail products that we sell are licensed to be carried exclusively by professional salons. The products we purchase for sale in our salons are purchased pursuant to purchase orders, as opposed to long-term contracts and generally can be terminated by the producer without much advance notice. Should the various product manufacturers decide to utilize other distribution channels, such as large discount retailers, it could negatively impact the revenue earned from product sales. Changes to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results from operations. Changes in interest rates will have an impact on our expected results from operations. Currently, we manage the risk related to fluctuations in interest rates through the use of variable rate debt instruments and other financial instruments. During fiscal year 2008, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners downgraded our private placement debt from investment-grade private placement to non-investment grade. The downgrade has not had any effect on the private placement debt outstanding or corresponding interest rate. Any future non-investment grade private placement debt would result in a substantially higher interest rate. The downgrade has not impacted our revolving credit facility or our ability to secure bank borrowings. See discussion in Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," for additional information. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves processing, transmission and storage of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop visiting our salons altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Certain of the terms and provisions of the convertible notes we recently issued may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and impose other risks. We recently issued $172,500,000 aggregate principal amount of our 5.0% convertible senior notes due 2014 in a public offering. Certain terms of the notes we issued may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results or impose other risks, such as the following: •Holders of notes may convert their notes into shares of our common stock, which may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders, •If we elect to settle all or a portion of the conversion obligation exercised by holders of the notes through the payment of cash, it could adversely affect our liquidity, •Holders of notes may require us to purchase their notes upon certain fundamental changes, and any failure by us to purchase the notes in such event would result in an event of default with respect to the notes, •The fundamental change provisions contained in the notes may delay or prevent a takeover attempt of the Company that might otherwise be beneficial to our investors, •Recent changes in the accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash require us to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest as interest expense, which will decrease our financial results, •Our ability to pay principal and interest on the notes depends on our future operating performance and any failure by us to make scheduled payments could allow the note holders to declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, result in termination of other debt commitments and foreclosure proceedings by other lends, or force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and •The debt obligations represented by the notes may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay our debt, limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and increase our vulnerability to downtowns in general economic conditions in our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 