ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the following factors, among others, relating to Clinical Data: Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Operations We do not have sufficient cash resources available to fund our current level of activities beyond the second quarter of fiscal 2008, including our Phase III clinical trial program for our lead product candidate, Vilazodone. Over the near-term, we will need to satisfy substantial capital requirements to pursue our development and commercialization strategies and to further optimize operations. At currently projected rates of expenditure, we believe that additional funding will be required to operate our business and our subsidiaries beyond the second quarter of fiscal 2008, including the funding of Phase III clinical trials for our lead drug candidate, Vilazodone. Although we completed a private placement of our common stock of approximately $17.0 million in June 2006, any future equity or other fundraising may not be successful. The level of market interest in providing further financing to life sciences companies could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise funds. Moreover, our independent auditors issued an unqualified opinion on our 2007 consolidated financial statements that included a material uncertainty related to our ability to continue as a going concern, which could adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital. Further, if we do secure additional capital through a sale of our securities, dilution to our then existing shareholders may result. If we are unable to secure additional funds when we need them, we may be required to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our programs. We may also be forced to license compounds or technology to others that we would prefer to develop internally until a later, and potentially more lucrative, stage. If we are required 30 Table of Contents to raise additional funds through collaborations and other licensing arrangements, we may have to relinquish our rights to some of our technologies or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. Over the near-term, our future capital requirements to continue the development and enhancement of our technologies, capture market share, in-license and develop genetic tests and to seek to complete the commercialization of our drug candidates will be substantial and will be influenced by many factors. Such factors include the amount of milestone payments which we may receive or be required to pay under collaboration, licensing or other agreements, the progress and cost of research and development projects, especially the Phase III program for Vilazodone, our lead drug candidate, and expenses which may be required for the filing, defense and enforcement of patent rights. If we are unable to secure adequate financing over the near-term, we will not be able to pursue our product development, commercialization and intellectual property strategies as currently planned. Given our current product development efforts and our recent acquisitions of both Genaissance Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Icoria, Inc., each of which has historically incurred significant net losses, we expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. At March 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $83.4 million. We expect to incur substantial additional operating losses over the next several years as our research, development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities increase, particularly with respect to our current lead product candidate, Vilazodone. To become profitable, we, either alone or with collaborators, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current and future product candidates, including Vilazodone, and other products and continue to leverage our existing technologies to generate product and services revenue. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue. In previous clinical trials performed by others, Vilazodone failed to demonstrate significant efficacy and we may be unable to develop a commercially viable drug. We expect to unblind the top line (preliminary) efficacy data of our current Vilazodone Phase III trial by the end of August of this year, and we expect that the data that combines this top line efficacy data and the biomarker data will be reviewed and analyzed by the end of September 2007. Until the top line efficacy data is analyzed and reviewed in conjunction with the biomarker data, we will not know whether Vilazodone has the potential to become a product that has commercial value. However, it is possible that the top line efficacy data, when unblinded, may not show that Vilazodone is effective in any or a sufficient number of patients for us to use our biomarker data to attempt to develop a commercially viable product. In addition, our review and analysis of the top line efficacy data with the biomarker data may not demonstrate sufficient correlation to warrant continued development of Vilazodone. Prior to filing an NDA with respect to Vilazodone, we will be required to complete at least one long-term safety study and one additional pivotal study. We currently expect that such a filing could occur by the end of calendar year 2009, after which our ability to market Vilazodone will depend upon regulatory review by the FDA. In addition, even if these additional studies demonstrate that Vilazodone is effective in a subset of the population that has a yet to be determined genetic marker, the potential addressable market of people with any such genetic marker may not be large enough to demonstrate a sufficient commercial market opportunity to either attract a marketing partner or to justify establishment of a dedicated sales force. The outcome of this process is uncertain, and delays in the process and/or failure to obtain FDA approval or gain market acceptance for Vilazodone could adversely impact our commercial prospects. Personalized medicine is an emerging field, and therefore regulatory approval of our drug and related diagnostic tests may take longer and be less predictable than approval for untargeted medicines. Ultimately, personalized medicine may prove to be an unsuccessful industry, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. Personalized medicine is an emerging field and represents a new approach to patient care, one which ultimately may not prove successful. Our business strategy involves seeking marketing approval for our drug candidates with the use of a diagnostic test to pre-screen subsets of patient populations most likely to receive 31 Table of Contents therapeutic benefit or minimal side effects. This approach to drug development may not work scientifically and may be unsuccessful as a commercial alternative to existing patient care. Moreover, the FDA has issued guidelines on the approval process for drugs with associated diagnostics, and it remains to be seen how the FDA will develop and implement standards for evaluation of integrated products such as ours. For example, for any given drug we do not know how effective our diagnostic must be in pre-screening patients in order to achieve FDA approval for the launch of clinical trials or marketing approval upon their completion. Any genetic association that we locate may not be viewed by the FDA as valid indicators for pre-screening patients. Further, we may be unable to meet the current guidelines, or other future standards, issued by the FDA. In addition, because our approach involves the application of new technologies, various governmental regulatory authorities may subject our products to additional review. As a result, these authorities may grant regulatory approvals more slowly than for untargeted medicines. If we are unable to obtain FDA approval or experience a delay in such approval, the development of our drug candidates and diagnostics may not occur or may occur more slowly than anticipated, and our business would suffer as a result. If our assumption about the role of genes in diseases or drug response is wrong, we may not be able to develop useful products. The products we hope to develop involve new and unproven scientific approaches. They are based on the assumption that information about an individual’s genes may help scientists to better understand complex disease processes. Scientists generally have a limited understanding of the role of genes in diseases, and few products based on gene discoveries have been developed. Of the products that exist, all are diagnostic products. To date, we know of no therapeutic products based on disease-gene discoveries. If our assumption about the role of genes in the disease process is wrong, our gene discovery programs may not result in products. We may not successfully develop or derive revenues from any products. We use our technology and research capabilities to identify genes and gene variations that contribute to certain diseases and then develop or license drug candidates and/or diagnostic products that may be effective in patient populations with the identified gene variations. Although we have identified genes and polymorphisms that we believe are likely to cause certain diseases, we may not be correct and may not be successful in identifying any other similar genes or in developing drugs or diagnostic products based on these discoveries. Many experts believe that some of the diseases we are targeting are caused by both genetic and environmental factors. Even if we identify specific genes that are partly responsible for causing diseases, any therapeutic or diagnostic products we develop as a result of our genetic work may not detect, prevent, treat or cure a particular disease. Any pharmaceutical or diagnostic products that we or our collaborators are able to develop will fail to produce revenues unless we: • establish that they are safe and effective; • successfully compete with other technologies and products; • ensure that they do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others; • establish that they can be manufactured in sufficient quantities at reasonable costs; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for them; and • can market them successfully. We may not be able to meet these conditions. We expect that it will be years, if ever, before we will recognize significant revenue from the development of therapeutic or diagnostic products. We may not derive significant revenues from our diagnostic tests. We currently offer our FAMILION test, as well as DNA-based diagnostic tests for Warfarin, Clozapine-Induced-Agranulocytosis and Rituximab and are currently developing additional DNA-based diagnostic tests. Our ability to derive revenues from these tests will depend, among other things, on continued certification of 32 Table of Contents our reference laboratory under CLIA by the State of Connecticut and our continued compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and on acceptance of the test by physicians. In addition, we may not be able to secure broad third-party insurance or other reimbursement for our tests. The path, timing and amount of third party reimbursement are unknown at this time. Accordingly, patients may have to pay for certain tests themselves and may be unwilling or unable to do so. As a result of these factors, we cannot predict whether or not we will be able to derive significant revenues from these tests. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. Even if the FDA approves Vilazodone or any other drug candidates developed by us, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of any drug we develop will depend on a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of the drug; • published studies demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of the drug relative to competing products; • development of an associated genetic screening diagnostic with the capability of producing accurate results; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. The failure of a drug candidate to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products that achieve widespread market acceptance, we may be unable to recoup product development costs, and our revenues and earnings may decline. Our future success depends on our ability to broadly market existing technologies, products, and services, and to develop and introduce new product and service offerings and grow our business in the blood analysis instrumentation, diagnostic assays DNA-based diagnostic and therapeutic products and human biomarker markets. We expect to commit substantial resources to developing new products and services, as well as to continue marketing the existing products and services. If the market for these products and services does not develop as anticipated, or demand for our current product and service offerings does not grow or grows more slowly than we expect, we will have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient revenue, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If our products are not granted adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, we may unable to successfully commercialize our products and we may never achieve widespread market acceptance of our products. Our ability to successfully sell our drug and companion biomarker tests in the United States and other countries depends on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors such as private insurance plans, managed care organizations and Medicare and Medicaid. Virtually all of our revenues for such products will be dependent on customers who rely on third party reimbursement. Third-party healthcare payors in the United States are increasingly sensitive to containing healthcare costs and heavily scrutinize new technology as a primary factor in increased healthcare costs. Third-party payors may influence the pricing or perceived attractiveness of our products and services by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they provide or by not providing any reimbursement. Medical community or third-party healthcare payors may deny or delay acceptance of our products or may provide reimbursement at levels that are inadequate to support adoption of our technologies. If these payors do not reimburse for our drugs or companion biomarker tests, or only provide reimbursement significantly below the costs of such products, our potential market and revenues will be 33 Table of Contents significantly limited. Use of our products may never become widely reimbursed, and the level of reimbursement we obtain may never be sufficient to permit us to generate substantial revenue. We are entering into new business areas and may not have the expertise, experience and resources to pursue all of our businesses at once. Individually, each of Clinical Data, Genaissance, Genome Express and Icoria has had experience in their respective areas of expertise, but we have never pursued all of the facets of these businesses at once. As a result, we may not have the experience, the appropriate expertise, or the resources to pursue all businesses in our combined company and we may discover that some of the new facets of the combined business are not what we previously believed and are not financially viable. If we are unable to develop and/or in-license or otherwise acquire new products and technologies, we may not be able to grow our company successfully. To date, we have relied significantly on acquisitions and in-licensing of intellectual property for our growth. For example, in 2005 we acquired three companies, including Genaissance Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which provided us with our lead drug candidate, Vilazodone and most of the assets in our PGxHealth division. If we are unable to develop products and services internally, or to acquire companies or other technologies, we may not be able to continue our growth or to establish a leadership position in our industry. Additionally, even if such companies and/or other assets are available, we may not be able to acquire them on reasonable terms. Due to recent merger activity, it may be more difficult to obtain additional financing at favorable terms, if at all. Because we have operated as an integrated enterprise for only one full fiscal year, and as a combined company we have a significant history of losses, it may be more difficult to encourage investment in our company through public and additional private stock offerings, arrangements with corporate partners, credit facilities or from other sources. We may never realize enhanced liquidity in the public markets because the overhang in the public markets as a result of recent merger transactions may dissuade new investors. If we are unable to secure adequate financing over the near-term, we will not be able to pursue our product development and commercialization strategies as currently planned. Because a significant portion of our total assets will be represented by goodwill that are subject to mandatory annual impairment evaluations, we could be required to write-off some or all of this goodwill, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We accounted for the acquisitions of Genaissance, Genome Express and Icoria using the purchase method of accounting. The purchase prices for these businesses were allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on estimated fair values at the date of consummation of the respective mergers. The unallocated portions of the purchase prices were allocated to goodwill. Approximately 37% of our total assets at March 31, 2007 are goodwill and other intangibles, of which approximately $20.1 million is goodwill. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The unamortized values of other intangibles are reviewed if certain conditions exist. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we assessed the recoverability of the intangibles acquired in the Icoria acquisition and were required to record an impairment charge of $2.6 million as the assets were not considered recoverable. When we perform future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment. Such adjustment would result in a charge to operating income in that period. Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods. 34 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully complete the integration of the businesses of Genaissance, Genome Express and Icoria. During fiscal year 2006, we consummated mergers with Genaissance and Icoria, and acquired all of the capital stock of Genome Express. The integration of these businesses has required and continues to require significant efforts from each company, including the coordination of product development, sales and marketing efforts and administrative operations. We have employees widely dispersed across our operations in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, California, Texas, North Carolina, and other domestic and foreign locations, which has increased the difficulty of integrating operations. The continuing challenges involved in this integration include, but are not limited to: • retaining existing customers and strategic partners of each company; coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies, especially in light of rapidly evolving markets for those products and technologies; • preserving the value of various research and development, collaboration, distribution, manufacturing and other important relationships; • effectively managing the diversion of management attention from business matters to integration issues; • combining product offerings and incorporating acquired technology and rights into product offerings effectively and quickly; and • developing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies. As of March 31, 2007, we identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, and concluded that our disclosure controls were not effective. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may be misled and lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures, and the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A “significant deficiency” means a deficiency in the design or operation of internal control that adversely affects our ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will occur and not be detected. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that result in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will occur and not be detected by management before the financial statements are published. In connection with the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting for this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as further described in Item 9A, management and our registered public accounting firm determined that as of March 31, 2007 our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in the future, our continued assessment, or the subsequent assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal additional deficiencies in our internal controls and disclosure controls, some of which may require disclosure in future reports. Although we have made and are continuing to make improvements in our internal controls, if we are unsuccessful in remediating the material weakness impacting our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, or if we discover other deficiencies, it may adversely impact our ability to report accurately and in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations in the future , which may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary to produce accurate, reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we continue to have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, they may negatively impact our business and operations. 35 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully integrate companies that we acquire in the future. Our success will depend in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. From time to time, we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our existing business, including acquisitions that could be material in size and scope. Any future acquisitions involve various risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies; • the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The failure to successfully integrate businesses acquired in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are dependent upon certain key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management, legal and scientific staff, including Andrew J. Fromkin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, C. Evan Ballantyne, our Chief Financial Officer, Caesar J. Belbel, our Chief Legal Officer and Carol Reed, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer. The loss of the service of any of these persons could seriously harm our business operations, product development and commercialization efforts. We must implement additional and expensive finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in order to grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements, which will increase our costs and require additional management resources. Beginning with our annual report for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, to be filed in June 2008, we will be required to comply with the internal control reporting requirements mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will increase our costs and require additional management resources. We have begun upgrading our finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. If we are unable to complete the required Section 404 assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, if we fail to maintain or implement adequate controls, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the date of our fiscal 2008 annual report for which compliance is required, our ability to obtain additional financing could be impaired. In addition, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting and in the accuracy of our periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act. A lack of investor confidence in the reliability and accuracy of our public reporting could cause our stock price to decline. In order to conduct clinical trials and to market our drugs, we will have to develop methods or make arrangements with third parties to produce these drugs using approved methods and at commercially viable rates. In order to conduct clinical trials and ultimately to market any drugs we may develop, we or our third party contractors will need to obtain chemicals and components, and in some cases licenses for proprietary formulation technology, necessary for the manufacture of the products from third parties. We or our contractors 36 Table of Contents will then need to implement the necessary technology in order to produce the drugs to exacting standards set by us and the regulatory bodies. This is an uncertain and time consuming process, and any disruption in it may delay or harm our ability to continue clinical development. For drugs which have reached the last stage of clinical trials, we or our contractors will have to develop methods to scale up the production of the drug at commercially viable rates. If we are not able to scale the process in a timely manner or do not have the ability to produce the drug economically, we may not be able to enter the market with a viable product. This would harm our financial and commercial prospects. The manufacture of our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes is subject to cGMP regulations promulgated by the FDA. The manufacture of diagnostic products subject to FDA approval are also subject to the FDA’s quality system requirements (QSR). In the event that we are unable to develop satisfactory manufacturing facilities or obtain or retain third party manufacturing for our products, we will not be able to commercialize such products as planned. We may not be able to enter into agreements for the manufacture of future products with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP, QSR and other regulatory requirements. Our current dependence upon others for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis and, in the longer term, the profit margin, if any, on the sale of future products and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. If we cannot successfully form and maintain suitable arrangements with third parties for the manufacturing of the products we may develop, our ability to develop or deliver products may be impaired. We have little experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and do not have manufacturing facilities that can produce sufficient quantities of drugs for large scale clinical trials. Accordingly, we must either develop such facilities, which will require substantial additional funds, or rely on contract manufacturers for the production of products for development and commercial purposes. In order to conduct our Phase III clinical trial of Vilazodone, we have to contract with third parties to manufacture a sufficient supply of the drug for the trial and to produce tablets containing Vilazodone in amounts sufficient for the clinical trial. While we signed contracts with suppliers for the production of Vilazodone material and tablets for the launch of our Phase III clinical trial and received sufficient materials to complete the trial, we will likely be required to initiate an additional pivotal study, which will require additional amounts of Vilazodone. New drug and diagnostic development involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize any of the products we develop. We have limited experience in developing drugs and diagnostics. Before we can develop diagnostic tests and commercialize any new products, we will need to: • collect and analyze DNA samples; • conduct high-density whole genome association studies to discover and replicate the relationship between genetic variations in the DNA samples and therapeutic response; • undertake clinical trials to validate the efficacy, safety, toxicology, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and other aspects of our drug candidates, and predictiveness of any related diagnostic tests; • expend significant resources; • maintain and expand our intellectual property rights; • obtain marketing approvals from the FDA and other regulatory approvals; and • find collaborative partners with manufacturing and commercial capabilities for our current and future drug candidates and related diagnostics. 37 Table of Contents The process of developing new drugs and diagnostic tests takes several years. Our product development efforts may fail for many reasons, including: • the failure of products in the research and development stage; • the high cost of clinical trials and our lack of financial and other resources; • the inability to locate partners with sufficient resources to assist in conducting clinical trials; and • the lack of clinical validation data to support the effectiveness of our products. Success in early clinical trials often is not replicated in later studies, and few research and development projects result in commercial products. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate or we may be required to expend considerable resources repeating clinical trials, which would adversely impact the timing for revenues from those product candidates. In addition, as we develop products, we may partner with third parties or be required to make significant investments in product development, and marketing and selling resources. If a clinical validation study fails to demonstrate the prospectively defined endpoints of the study, we may abandon the development of the product or product feature that was the subject of the clinical trial, which could harm our business. Our operations may be affected by unexpected problems frequently encountered in connection with the development and transition to other technologies and by the competitive environment in which we operate. Even if we are successful in establishing genetic associations and validating them through clinical trials, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in our product development efforts. Even if we develop products for commercial use, these products may not be accepted by the research, diagnostic, medical and pharmaceutical marketplaces or be capable of being offered at prices that will enable us to become profitable. Our products may not ultimately prove to be useful for commercial markets, meet applicable regulatory standards, or be successfully marketed. Our international operations and sales expose us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risks. The costs of importation of instruments and other products are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. In fiscal 2007, sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 61.6% of our revenues. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Most of our sales to international distributors are denominated in Euros. To the extent that our sales and operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, our operating results may be affected by changes in exchange rates. Such gains and losses may be material and may adversely affect our future operating results. While we sometimes engage in limited, transaction specific, foreign currency hedging transactions to reduce our risk, such hedging transaction may not allow us to avoid any currency exchange rate fluctuation risks. Risk Factors Relating to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect effectively our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business and third parties may use our technology, both of which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our technologies and products throughout the world. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we will operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We will rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us or our subsidiaries may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued to us or our subsidiaries or which may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign 38 Table of Contents countries in which we plan to compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive will be materially impaired. The patent positions of life science companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our business could be hurt by any of the following: • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • the claims of any issued patents may not provide meaningful protection; • we may be unsuccessful in developing additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • our patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties; and • others may have patents that relate to our technology or business. Third parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering biomarkers and related methods that our PGxHealth division has developed or may develop or technology upon which our technology platform depends. If patent offices issue patents on these patent applications and we wish to use the biomarkers or technology, we would need to obtain licenses from third parties. However, we might not be able to obtain any such license on commercially favorable terms, if at all, and if we do not obtain these licenses, we might be prevented from using certain technologies or taking certain products to market. In addition to patent protection, we will also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade-secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. If third parties make or file claims of intellectual property infringement against us, or otherwise seek to establish their intellectual property rights, we may have to spend time and money in response and cease some of our operations. Third parties may claim that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization or that we are infringing on their patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending against any of these claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief which could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, courts may order us to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing available products. Any patent protection we obtain for our products may not prevent marketing of similar competing products. Patents on our products may not prevent our competitors from designing around and developing similar compounds or compounds with similar modes of action or tests that may compete successfully with our products. Such third party compounds may prove to be superior to our products or gain wider market acceptance and thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. 39 Table of Contents Any patents we obtain may be challenged by producers of generic drugs. Patents covering innovative drugs, which are also commonly referred to as “branded drugs” or “pioneer drugs,” face increased scrutiny and challenges in the courts from manufacturers of generic drugs who may receive benefits such as limited marketing co-exclusivity if the challenge is successful. Such patent challenges typically occur when the generic manufacturer files an Abbreviated New Drug Application with the FDA and asserts that the patent or patents covering the branded drug are invalid or unenforceable, forcing the owner or licensee of the branded drug to file suit for patent infringement. If any patents we obtain covering our pharmaceutical products are subject to such successful patent challenges, our marketing exclusivity may be eliminated or reduced in time, which would thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry Our biopharmaceutical or diagnostic product candidates must undergo rigorous clinical trials and regulatory approvals, which could substantially delay or prevent their development or marketing. Any biopharmaceutical and some of our diagnostic products that we develop will be subject to rigorous clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA and analogous foreign regulatory agencies. This approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials do not ensure positive results in late stage clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. We do not know when, or if, all the required clinical trials for Vilazodone will be completed. Many factors affect patient enrollment, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, alternative therapies, competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions we are investigating. As a result of all of these factors, our trials may take longer to enroll patients than we anticipate. Such delays may increase our costs and slow down our product development and the regulatory approval process. Our product development costs will also increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. The occurrence of any of these events will delay our ability to generate revenue from product sales and impair our ability to become profitable, which may cause us to have insufficient capital resources to support our operations. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, products that we or our collaborators develop could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If we or our collaborators do not receive these necessary approvals, we will not be able to generate substantial product or royalty revenues and may not become profitable. We and our collaborators may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure regulatory approvals. Factors that raise uncertainty in obtaining these regulatory approvals include the following: • we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use; • we have limited experience in conducting the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval; and • data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Regulatory authorities may delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if they believe that the patients participating in trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if they find deficiencies in the clinical trial procedures. In addition, our or our collaborators’ failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties and other actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. We initiated a pivotal Phase III clinical trial of Vilazodone for the treatment of depression in February 2006. We will need to complete all aspects of this Phase III trial and additional trials before filing an NDA for marketing approval of this product for this indication. While we believe the NDA could be filed by the end of 40 Table of Contents calendar 2009, this clinical trial or subsequent clinical trials or other development efforts may be delayed for any of the reasons described above, and may take longer than anticipated to initiate and/or to complete. Concerns regarding the use of genetic testing results may limit the commercial viability of any products we develop. Other companies have developed genetic predisposition tests that have raised ethical concerns. It is possible that employers or others could discriminate against people who have a genetic predisposition to certain diseases. Concern regarding possible discrimination may result in governmental authorities enacting restrictions or bans on the use of all, or certain types of, genetic testing. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetic tests even if permissible. These factors may limit the market for, and therefore the commercial viability of, products that our collaborators and/or we may develop. If we were sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product which is made using our technologies, causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks are inherent in the development of chemical, agricultural, pharmaceutical, and other such healthcare products and related methodologies. If we choose to obtain product liability insurance but cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of products that we or our commercial partners develop may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies and government agencies in the development and marketing of products and services. A number of companies are attempting to rapidly identify and patent genes that cause diseases or an increased susceptibility to diseases. Competition in this field and our other areas of business, including drug discovery and development, is intense and is expected to increase. We have numerous competitors, including major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions, and other government-sponsored entities and companies providing healthcare information products. Our collaborators, including Roche and Merck, may also compete with us. Many of our competitors, either alone or with collaborators, have considerably greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities, and technical and other resources than we do, which may allow them to discover important genes or develop drugs based on such discoveries before we do. We believe that a number of our competitors are developing competing products and services that may be commercially successful and that are further advanced in development than our potential products and services. To succeed, we must discover disease-predisposing genes, characterize their functions, develop genetic tests or therapeutic products and related information services based on such discoveries, obtain regulatory and other approvals, and launch such services or products before our competitors. Even if we are successful in developing effective products or services, our products and services may not successfully compete with those of our competitors, including cases where the competing drugs use the same mechanism of action as our products. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products and services that are more effective than ours or that are marketed before ours. Competitors have established, and in the future may establish, patent positions with respect to gene sequences related to our research projects. Such patent positions or the public availability of gene sequences comprising substantial portions of the human genome could decrease the potential value of our research projects and make it more difficult for us to compete. We may also face competition from other entities in gaining access to DNA samples used for research and development purposes. Our competitors may also obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that could limit our rights, or our customers’ ability, to use our technologies or databases, or commercialize therapeutic or diagnostics products. In addition, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with 41 Table of Contents pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to proprietary technology. We expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made and become more widely known. Our future success will depend in large part on maintaining a competitive position in the genomic field. Rapid technological development may result in products or technologies becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses we incur in developing them. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability, and that of our collaborators, to: • develop proprietary products; • develop and maintain products that reach the market first, and are technologically superior to, and more cost effective than, other products on the market; • obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies; • attract and retain scientific and product development personnel; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • manufacture, market and sell products that we develop. Intense competition could reduce our market share or limit our ability to increase market share, which could harm our financial performance. The medical products industry is rapidly evolving and developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Competition in this industry, which includes our medical instrumentation, reagent and consulting services businesses, is intense and expected to increase as new products, technologies and services become available and new competitors enter the market. Our competitors in the United States, Europe and Pacific-Asia are numerous and include, among others, large, multi-national diagnostic testing and medical products companies. Our future success depends upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products, technologies and services in our areas of focus. Our competitors may: • develop technologies, products and services that are more effective than our products or services, or that render our technologies, products or services obsolete or noncompetitive; • obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would prevent us from developing our potential products; or • obtain regulatory approval for the commercialization of their products more rapidly or effectively than we do. Also, the possibility of intellectual property rights disputes with competitors holding domestic and foreign patent and other intellectual property rights may limit or delay expansion possibilities for our businesses. In addition, many of our existing or potential competitors have or may have substantially greater financial and managerial resources, research and development capabilities, and clinical, manufacturing, regulatory and marketing experience. We operate in a very competitive environment. We expect to encounter intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our targeted application areas. We anticipate that our competitors in these areas will include: • health care and other companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers; • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; • molecular services business; • companies developing drug discovery technologies; 42 Table of Contents • companies developing molecular diagnostic and genetic tests; and • companies developing point-of-care diagnostic and genetic tests. If we are successful in developing products in these areas, we will face competition from established companies and numerous development-stage companies that continually enter these markets. In many instances, competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than us. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than us and may offer discounts as a competitive tactic. In addition, several development-stage companies are currently making or developing products that compete with or will compete with our potential products. Competitors may succeed in developing, obtaining approval from the FDA, or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or potential products or that render our technologies and current or potential products obsolete. Competitors may also develop proprietary positions that may prevent us from successfully commercializing products. Our medical device products require government approval to be marketed. We have obtained or are in the process of obtaining all necessary government approvals to market our current products in the United States and the European Union. However, we will likely need to obtain approval of certain European regulatory bodies and the FDA to market many of the new products that we may develop or obtain the rights to distribute. Domestically, certain of our products are classified as medical devices under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act. As such, if and when these products are offered for sale in the United States, these products will be subject to continuing regulation and oversight by the FDA. The cost of obtaining such approvals may be high and the process lengthy, with no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. To date, neither the FDA nor the European medical regulatory bodies have developed industry-wide performance standards with respect to the safety and effectiveness of the products that we presently market. Although we intend to use reasonable efforts to comply with international standards, when and if developed, there can be no assurance that our products as currently configured will be in compliance. Any failure to receive and maintain approvals for our products, or noncompliance with any international performance standards promulgated in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, any material change in the existing rules and regulations or the adoption of any new regulations could adversely affect us. Risk factors relating to Clinical Data’s common stock Future sales of our common stock or other securities may dilute our stockholders. We may sell common stock or other securities in the future in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock or other securities, existing stockholders who previously purchased our securities may be materially diluted by such subsequent sales. If the investors in our private placements sell their shares which have been registered under the Securities Act, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. The shares of common stock issued to the investors in our June 2006 and November 2005 private placements, as well as any shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued to the investors in those transactions, have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and such shares are freely transferable without restriction under the Securities Act (but may be subject to the short-swing profit rules and other restrictions on affiliates under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). If a large number of shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. 43 Table of Contents Our ownership is concentrated among a small number of stockholders. Our ownership is concentrated among a small number of stockholders, including Randal J. Kirk, our Chairman, and his affiliates. Mr. Kirk and his affiliates hold approximately 40.0% of our outstanding common stock as of June 8, 2007, after giving effect to the June 2006 private equity placement transaction and the subsequent exercise of his warrants. Mr. Kirk and his affiliates have a controlling block of our outstanding stock and are able to exert substantial control over various corporate matters including approvals of mergers, sales of assets, issuance of capital stock and similar transactions. The price of our common stock is volatile and could cause investors to lose a substantial part of their investment. The stock market in general and the stock prices of life sciences companies in particular, experience volatility, which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. Our common stock is lightly traded and its price could decline regardless of our company’s actual operating performance. Investors also could lose a substantial part of their investment as a result of industry or market-based fluctuations. If a more active public market for our common stock is not created, it may be difficult for stockholders to resell their shares. A number of additional factors also could cause the prevailing market prices of our common stock to fluctuate significantly and could adversely impact such prices and the ability of our company to raise additional equity capital. Such factors include but are not limited to the following: • the timing of our announcements or of our competitors’ announcements regarding significant products, clinical trials, NDA filings or product approvals, contracts or acquisitions; • variations in results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or other comments by securities analysts; • general economic and market conditions; and • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur. If the average closing price of our common stock were to decline significantly, we may be required to issue in excess of 20% of our outstanding capital stock upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock we issued to the preferred stockholder of Genaissance in our merger with that company. In our recent merger with Genaissance, we issued 484,070 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to the holder of all of the preferred stock of Genaissance. As of March 31, 2007, the holder of our Series A Preferred Stock has converted 300,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock, leaving 184,070 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock outstanding. Our outstanding preferred stock is initially convertible into 184,070 shares of our common stock, or approximately 1.8% of our outstanding capital stock as of March 31, 2007. However, if our preferred stock remains outstanding until October 6, 2008, then and thereafter, the conversion price of the preferred stock will begin to float based on the public market price of our common stock, subject to a minimum conversion factor of one share of preferred stock for one share of common stock. According to the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock, after October 6, 2008, on any given date of conversion, the conversion price will be equal to the average closing bid price of our common stock for the 10 consecutive trading days prior to such date of conversion. As a result, if the average closing bid price of the our common stock were to decline, the number of shares of our common stock into which our Series A Preferred Stock is then convertible would increase. If the average closing bid price of our common stock declines enough, it is possible that we would have to issue a number of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock that would be greater than 20% of our then-outstanding capital stock. Such an event does not require additional stockholder approval, would have the effect of diluting your ownership interest in us and could result in the preferred stockholder exercising control over certain of our corporate decisions, which it previously did not have the ability to control or influence. 44 Table of Contents We may issue preferred stock with rights that could affect your rights and prevent a takeover of the business. Our board of directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock (less any shares previously designated). In addition, Delaware corporate law imposes limitations on certain business combinations. These provisions could, under certain circumstances, delay or prevent a change in control of Clinical Data and, accordingly, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the near future. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 