ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the following factors, among others, relating to Clinical Data: Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Operations Without additional capital raising opportunities, or a significant change in our operating and development plan, we will not have sufficient cash resources available to fund our current level of activities beyond December 2009, including our New Drug Application submission for vilazodone and Phase III clinical trial programs for Stedivaze. At March 31, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $56.4 million. This amount does not include approximately $13.1 million in proceeds from the sale of our Cogenics segment in April 2009. Our projected uses of cash include cash to fund operations, including continued research and product development, sales and marketing, capital expenditures and existing debt service costs. We have undertaken several steps to improve liquidity and reduce our projected uses of cash, including the divestiture of non-core assets. We believe that our cash and cash availability will be sufficient to fund our operations at least through December 2009. This is based on a steady state view of our financials and does not assume any cash inflows from partnerships, 16 Table of Contents disposition of non-core assets or other dilutive and non-dilutive financings. We will need additional funds to continue operations and the development of vilazodone and Stedivaze and other products, as well as the operations of Avalon, including demonstrating the advantages and reliability of Avalon’s proprietary drug discovery and development technology, AvalonRx, beyond December 2009. Management is always evaluating additional sources of financing and would consider any of the following options: • partnering opportunities with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for development and marketing of our late-stage or pre-clinical compounds; • sale of non-core assets; and/or • sale of equity or debt securities. As evidenced by the September 26, 2008 and the February 25, 2009 private placements, we have been successful in raising capital in the past. We believe that, if required, those same and other investors would consider providing capital in the future. However, the sale of equity or debt securities may result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available in amounts or terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain financing or partnering opportunities, we may be required to implement cost reduction strategies. The most significant portion of the research and development expenses as well as some portion of sales and marketing expenses are discretionary and in anticipation of development and commercial launch of vilazodone. These cost reduction strategies could reduce the scope of and delay the timing of the planned vilazodone NDA filing which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We are also in the process of prioritizing the various development projects that we acquired through the Adenosine and Avalon acquisitions. Similar to the vilazodone and Stedivaze development, these projects are discretionary. However, the postponement or cancellation of any of these development efforts could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. Given our current product development efforts which have resulted in significant net losses, we expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. At March 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $251.0 million. We expect to incur substantial additional operating losses over the next several years as our research, development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities increase, particularly with respect to vilazodone and Stedivaze. To become profitable, we, either alone or with collaborators, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current and future product candidates, including vilazodone and Stedivaze, and other products and continue to leverage our existing technologies to generate product and services revenue. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue to become or sustain profitability. If regulatory authorities fail to timely approve vilazodone for marketing, our results of operations will suffer. In order to market our lead therapeutic candidate, vilazodone (as well as any other of our therapeutic products that successfully complete clinical trials), in the U.S. and abroad, we will need to obtain the approval of the FDA via an NDA filing expected later in calendar 2009; as well as the approval of European and other regulatory authorities in various countries. Regulatory authorities denying or delaying these approvals would adversely impact our business and therefore our results of operations. A regulatory authority may deny or delay an approval because it was not satisfied with the structure or conduct of clinical trials or due to its assessment of the data we supply. A regulatory authority, for instance, may not believe that we have adequately established a product’s risk-benefit profile or adequately addressed negative safety signals. Clinical data are subject to varied interpretations, and regulatory authorities may disagree with our assessments of our data. In any such case, a regulatory authority could insist that we provide 17 Table of Contents additional data, which could substantially delay or even prevent commercialization efforts, particularly if we are required to conduct additional pre-approval clinical studies. Personalized medicine and pharmacogenomics is an emerging field, and therefore regulatory approval of our drug candidates that are paired with a companion diagnostic and diagnostic tests may take longer and be less predictable than approval for untargeted medicines. Personalized medicine is an emerging field and represents a new approach in healthcare, one which ultimately may not prove successful. Certain components of our business strategy involve seeking marketing approval for our current and potential new drug candidates with the use of a diagnostic test to pre-screen subsets of patient populations most likely to achieve therapeutic benefit and/or minimal side effects. This approach to drug development may not be scientifically feasible and may be unsuccessful as a commercial alternative to existing patient care. Moreover, the FDA has issued guidelines on the approval process for drugs with associated diagnostics and independent test, and it remains to be seen how the FDA will develop and implement standards for evaluation of integrated drug/diagnostic products such as ours. For example, for any given drug we do not know how effective our diagnostic must be in pre-screening patients in order to achieve marketing approval. Any biomarker association that we identify may not be viewed by the FDA as valid or the FDA may impose unreasonable burdens in establishing efficacy, safety, utility and validity. Further, we may be unable to meet the current guidelines or other future standards issued by the FDA. In addition, because our approach involves the application of new technologies, various governmental regulatory authorities may subject our products to additional requirements and review. As a result, these authorities may grant regulatory approvals more slowly than for untargeted medicines. If we are unable to obtain FDA approval or experience a delay in such approval, where required, the development of our drug candidates and diagnostics may not occur or may occur more slowly than anticipated, and our business would suffer as a result. If our assumption about the role of genes in diseases or drug response is wrong, we may not be able to develop useful products. The products we hope to develop involve new and unproven scientific approaches. They are based on the assumption that information about an individual’s genes may help scientists to better understand complex disease processes and that the magnitude of the effect of these genes is clinically and commercially useful. Scientists generally have a limited understanding of the role of genes in diseases and few products based on gene discoveries have been developed. Of the products that exist, most are diagnostic products. If our assumption about the role of genes in the disease process is wrong, our development programs may not result in products. We may not successfully develop or derive revenues from any products. We use our technology and research capabilities to identify genes and gene variations that contribute to certain diseases and then potentially develop compounds and/or tests to target populations in which variation in these genes affects outcomes. Although we have identified genes and polymorphisms that we believe are likely to be associated with certain phenotypes, we may not be correct and may not be successful in identifying any other similar genes or in developing drugs or tests based on these discoveries. Any pharmaceutical or diagnostic products that we or our collaborators are able to develop will fail to produce revenues unless we: • establish that they are safe and effective; • establish that they are clinically valid and useful; • successfully compete with other technologies and products; • ensure that they do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others; • establish that they can be manufactured in sufficient quantities at reasonable costs; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for them; and • market them successfully. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to meet these conditions. We expect that it will be years, if ever, before we will recognize significant revenue from the development of therapeutic or diagnostic products. We may not derive significant revenues from our diagnostic tests. We currently offer our FAMILION family of tests including LQTS, BrS, CPVT, HCM and AVRC and are currently developing additional DNA-based diagnostic tests or expanding the indications of current tests. Our ability to derive revenues from these tests will depend on, among other things, continued certification of our reference laboratory under CLIA by the State of Connecticut and other states, our continued compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and acceptance of the test by physicians. In addition, we may not be able to secure third-party insurance or other reimbursement for our tests. The path, timing and amount of third party reimbursement are unknown at this time. Accordingly, patients may have to pay for certain tests themselves and may be unwilling or unable to do so. As a result of these factors, we cannot predict whether or not we will be able to derive significant revenues from these tests. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our tests and drugs, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. Even if the FDA approves our drug candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of these products may depend on a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; • published studies demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of our drugs relative to competing products; • accuracy and reliability of our laboratory testing; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. The failure of our drug candidates to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. If our products are not granted adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our products and we may never achieve widespread market acceptance of our products. Our ability to successfully sell our drugs and biomarker tests in the United States and other countries depends on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payers such as private insurance plans, managed care organizations and Medicare and Medicaid. Much of our revenues for such products will be dependent on customers who rely on third party reimbursement. Third-party healthcare payers in the United States are increasingly sensitive to containing healthcare costs and heavily scrutinize new technology as a primary factor in increased healthcare costs. Third-party payers may influence the pricing or perceived attractiveness of our products and services by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they provide or by not providing any reimbursement. Medical community or third-party healthcare payers may deny or delay acceptance of our products or may provide reimbursement at levels that are inadequate to support adoption of our technologies. If these payers do not reimburse for our drugs or companion biomarker tests, or only provide reimbursement significantly below the costs of such products, our potential market and revenues will be materially limited. Use of our products may never become widely reimbursed and the level of reimbursement we obtain may never be sufficient to permit us to generate substantial revenue. We recently have entered into new business areas and may not have the expertise, experience and resources to pursue all of our businesses at once. Individually, each of the PGxHealth, Adenosine Therapeutics and Avalon organizations has had experience in their respective areas of expertise, but we have only limited experience in pursuing all of the facets of these 19 Table of Contents businesses at once. As a result, we may not have the experience, the appropriate expertise or the resources to pursue all businesses in our combined company and we may discover that some of the new facets of the combined business are not what we previously believed and are not financially viable. If we are unable to develop and/or in-license or otherwise acquire new products and technologies, we may not be able to grow our company successfully. To date, we have relied significantly on acquisitions and in-licensing of intellectual property for our growth. For example, since 2005 we have acquired seven companies, including Genaissance, which provided us with our lead drug candidate, vilazodone, and many of the assets at PGxHealth. If we are unable to develop products and services internally, or to acquire companies or other technologies, we may not be able to continue our growth or to establish a leadership position in our industry. Additionally, even if such companies and/or other assets are available, we may not be able to acquire them on reasonable terms and therefore be required to pay a premium for their acquisition. Due to our recent acquisitions and dispositions, it may be more difficult to obtain additional financing at favorable terms, if at all. Due to our recent acquisitions and dispositions and because we have not operated as a fully integrated enterprise for several full fiscal years, and we have a significant history of losses, it may be more difficult to encourage investment in our company through public and additional private stock offerings, arrangements with corporate partners, credit facilities or from other sources. We may never realize enhanced liquidity in the public markets because the overhang in the public markets as a result of recent acquisition may dissuade new investors. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our current level of activities beyond December 2009. If we are unable to secure adequate financing, we will not be able to pursue our product development and commercialization strategies as currently planned. Because a significant portion of our total assets are represented by goodwill that is subject to mandatory annual impairment evaluations, we could be required to write-off some or all of this goodwill which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 28.5% of our total assets at March 31, 2009 are goodwill and other intangibles, of which approximately $29.5 million is goodwill. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The unamortized values of other intangibles are reviewed if certain conditions exist. There was no impairment charge during fiscal 2009. When we perform future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment. Such adjustment would result in a charge to operating income in that period. Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods. We may be unable to successfully complete the integration of the businesses of Adenosine Therapeutics and Avalon. We may not achieve successful integration of the Adenosine Therapeutics and Avalon businesses in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the benefits and synergies of the acquisitions to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. During fiscal year 2009, we acquired Adenosine Therapeutics and entered into a merger agreement with Avalon Pharmaceuticals which was completed on May 28, 2009. We believe these acquisitions will result in benefits arising out of the combination of the companies. The successful integration of the three companies will require, among other things, integration of the Adenosine Therapeutics’ and Avalon’s businesses into ours. The integration of these businesses has required and continues to require significant efforts from each company, including the coordination of product development, sales and marketing efforts and administrative operations. We have employees dispersed across our operations in Massachusetts, Connecticut, Maryland, and Virginia, which increases the difficulty of integrating these operations. The continuing challenges involved in this integration include, but are not limited to: • retaining existing customers and strategic partners of each company; 20 Table of Contents • coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies, especially in light of rapidly evolving markets for those products and technologies; • preserving the value of various research and development, collaboration, distribution, manufacturing and other important relationships; • effectively managing the diversion of management attention from business matters to integration issues; • eliminating corporate overhead and consolidating administrative functions; • combining product offerings and incorporating acquired technology and rights into product offerings effectively and quickly; and • developing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies that we acquire in the future. Our success will depend in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. From time to time, we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our existing business, including acquisitions that could be material in size and scope. Any future acquisitions involve various risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies; • the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The failure to successfully integrate businesses we acquire in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are dependent upon certain key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management, legal and scientific staff, including Andrew J. Fromkin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, C. Evan Ballantyne, our Chief Financial Officer, Caesar J. Belbel, our Chief Legal Officer and Carol R. Reed, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer. The loss of the service of any of these persons or other senior managers and key scientific and other personnel could seriously harm our business operations, product development and commercialization efforts. In order to conduct clinical trials and to market our drugs, we will have to develop methods to produce these drugs using approved methods and at commercially viable rates. In order to conduct clinical trials and ultimately to market any drugs we may develop, we or our third party contractors will need to obtain chemicals and components and, in some cases, licenses for proprietary formulation technology necessary for the manufacture of the products from third parties. We or our contractors will then need to implement the necessary technology in order to produce the drugs to exacting standards set by us and regulatory bodies. This is an uncertain and time consuming process; any disruption in it may delay or harm our ability to continue clinical development. For drugs which have reached the last stage of clinical trials, we or our contractors will have to develop methods to scale up the production of the drug at commercially viable rates. If we are not able 21 Table of Contents to scale the process in a timely manner or do not have the ability to produce the drug economically, we may not be able to enter the market with a viable product. This would harm our financial and commercial prospects. If we cannot successfully form and maintain suitable arrangements with third parties for the manufacturing of the products we may develop, our ability to develop or deliver products may be impaired. We have little experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and do not have manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, we must either develop such facilities, which will require substantial additional funds, or rely on contract manufacturers for the production of products for development and commercial purposes. While we have signed contracts with suppliers for the production of vilazodone material and tablets for our clinical trials and have contracted for sufficient materials to complete these trials, we rely on these contract manufacturers to fulfill this need. Failure of those contract manufacturers would seriously harm our ability to complete our clinical trial program for vilazodone and to have suitable product to commercialize. The manufacture of our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes is subject to cGMP regulations promulgated by the FDA. In the event that we are unable to develop satisfactory manufacturing facilities or obtain or retain third party manufacturing for our products, we will not be able to commercialize such products as planned. We may not be able to enter into agreements for the manufacture of future products with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with cGMP, and other regulatory requirements. Our current dependence upon others for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis and, in the longer term, the profit margin, if any, on the sale of future products and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. New drug and genetic and pharmacogenetic test development involves a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize any of the products we develop. We have limited experience in developing drugs and tests. Before we can develop diagnostic tests and commercialize any new products, we need to accomplish some or all of the following: • collect and analyze DNA samples; • conduct association studies to discover and replicate relationships between genetic variations in the DNA samples and phenotype of interest; • undertake clinical trials to validate the efficacy, safety, toxicology, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and other aspects of our drug candidates, and predictiveness of any related diagnostic tests; • expend significant resources; • maintain and expand our intellectual property rights; • obtain, where necessary, marketing approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and • find collaborative partners with manufacturing and commercial capabilities for our current and future drug candidates and related diagnostics. The process of developing new drugs and diagnostic tests takes several years. Our product development efforts may fail for many reasons, including: • the failure of products in the research and development stage; • the high cost of clinical trials and our lack of financial and other resources; • the inability to locate partners with sufficient resources to assist in conducting clinical trials; and • the lack of clinical validation data to support the validity and utility of our products. Success in early clinical trials is not replicated often in later studies; few research and development projects result in commercial products. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate or we may be 22 Table of Contents required to expend considerable resources repeating clinical trials, which would adversely impact the timing for revenues from those product candidates. In addition, as we develop products, we may partner with third parties or be required to make significant investments in product development, marketing and selling resources. If a clinical validation study fails to demonstrate the prospectively defined endpoints of the study, we may abandon the development of the product or product feature that was the subject of the clinical trial, which could harm our business. Our operations may be affected by unexpected problems frequently encountered in connection with the development and transition to other technologies and by the competitive environment in which we operate. Even if we are successful in establishing genetic associations and validating them through clinical trials, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in our product development efforts. Even if we develop products for commercial use, these products may not be accepted by the research, diagnostic, medical and pharmaceutical marketplaces or be capable of being offered at prices that will enable us to become profitable. Our products may not ultimately prove to be useful for commercial markets, meet applicable regulatory standards or be successfully marketed. The covenants in the convertible notes restrict our financial and operational flexibility. We are subject to certain covenants under the convertible notes we issued in 2009 that restrict our financial and operational flexibility. For example, we are restricted from incurring additional indebtedness, redeeming or declaring or paying any cash dividend or cash distribution on our common stock, or issuing or selling any rights, warrants or options to subscribe for or purchase our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock at a price which is less than the then market price of the common stock, other than in connection with an underwritten public offering. As a result of these covenants, our ability to finance our operations through the incurrence of additional debt or the issuance of shares of our common stock is limited. Risk Factors Relating to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect effectively our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business and third parties may use our technology, both of which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our technologies and products throughout the world. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we will operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We will rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us or our subsidiaries may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents that have been issued to us or our subsidiaries or that may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we plan to compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive will be materially impaired. The patent positions of life science companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our business could be hurt by any of the following: • pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • the claims of any issued patents may not provide meaningful protection; • the claims of any issued patents may be invalidated or held unenforceable under current law or upon changes in patent law: • we may be unsuccessful in developing additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; 23 Table of Contents • our patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties; and • others may have patents that relate to our technology or business. Third parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering biomarkers and related methods that we have developed or may develop technology upon which our technology platform depends. If patent offices issue patents on these patent applications and we wish to use those biomarkers or technology, we would need to obtain licenses from third parties. However, we might not be able to obtain any such license on commercially favorable terms, if at all, and if we do not obtain these licenses, we might be prevented from using certain technologies or taking certain products to market. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade-secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair its competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. If third parties make or file claims of intellectual property infringement against us, or otherwise seek to establish their intellectual property rights, we may have to spend time and money in response and cease some of our operations. Third parties may claim that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization or that we are infringing on their patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending against any of these claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief which could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, courts may order us to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing available products. Any patent protection we obtain for our products may not prevent marketing of similar competing products. Patents on our products may not prevent our competitors from designing around and developing similar compounds or compounds with similar modes of action that may compete successfully with our products. Such third party compounds may prove to be superior to our products or gain wider market acceptance and thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. Patents on our testing products may not prevent our competitors from designing around and developing similar tests that may compete successfully with our products. Such third party tests may prove to be superior to our products or gain wider market acceptance and thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. Any patents we obtain may be challenged by producers of generic drugs. Patents covering innovative drugs, which are also commonly referred to as “branded drugs” or “pioneer drugs,” face increased scrutiny and challenges in the courts from manufacturers of generic drugs who may receive benefits such as limited marketing co-exclusivity if the challenge is successful. Such patent challenges typically occur when the generic manufacturer files an Abbreviated NDA with the FDA and asserts that the patent or patents covering the branded drug are invalid or unenforceable, forcing the owner or licensee of the branded drug to file suit for patent infringement. If any patents we obtain covering our pharmaceutical products are subject to such successful patent 24 Table of Contents challenges, our marketing exclusivity may be eliminated or reduced in time, which would thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. Patents pending may not issue. A number of our products are covered by patent applications that have not yet had their claims approved. Though we only submit patent applications that we believe have a reasonable probability of issuing, there is significant risk the patent applications may not be granted, or, if they are granted, may be granted with claims significantly less desirable than for which were originally applied. We may be unable to achieve milestones contained in our licensing agreements and have our license revoked by our licensors. Obtaining the milestones set forth in some of our licensing agreements requires performance on the part of us and may also depend on the successful work of suppliers, contractors, and sub-licensees. We cannot assure that there will be scientific, operational, or other success that will enable us to achieve the milestones to which we have agreed. Nor can we guarantee that we will be able to successfully renegotiate milestones with our licensors in the event that we desire or need to do so. In such instances, revocation of its license to the intellectual property upon which our business is built is a possibility and would significantly decrease our opportunities for success. Alternatively, licensees may impose additional goals or requirements on us in order to agree to extend the time of performance of our existing goals. Any termination of license agreements could significantly decrease our opportunities for success. Risk Factors Relating to Regulatory Matters Pre-clinical and clinical trials are time consuming, expensive, and uncertain processes. Before the FDA approves a drug candidate for marketing, it is tested for safety and efficacy in pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials. The pre-clinical phase involves the discovery, characterization, product formulation and animal testing necessary to prepare an IND for submission to the FDA. The IND must be accepted by the FDA before the drug can be tested in humans in the United States. The clinical phase of development follows a successful IND submission and involves the activities necessary to demonstrate the safety, tolerability, efficacy, dose and dose schedule of the product candidate in humans, as well as the ability to produce the substance in accordance with cGMP requirements. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. During the process, we expect to incur significant expenses to conduct trials and follow required regulatory processes. Positive results from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials do not ensure positive results in late stage clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. We do not know when, or if, our current clinical trials for vilazodone or Stedivaze will be completed. Many factors affect patient enrollment including: • the size of the patient population; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; • the eligibility criteria for the trial; • alternative therapies or technologies; and • competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions or indications we are investigating. As a result of all of these factors, our trials may take longer to enroll patients than we anticipate. Such delays may increase our costs and slow down our product development and the regulatory approval process. Our product development costs will also increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. The occurrence of any of these events will delay our ability to generate revenue from product sales and impair our ability to become profitable, which may cause us to have insufficient capital resources to support our operations. Additionally, we cannot be certain that the necessary types of patients can be enrolled in the required time frame, if ever. The clinical program for Stedivaze, for instance, may require the enrollment of patients with severe 25 Table of Contents cardiac disease and these patients may be difficult or impossible to enroll. It may also be necessary to utilize other drug products in our clinical trials. We cannot be certain that supplies of other agents will be available for our trials. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, products that we or our collaborators develop could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If we or our collaborators do not receive these necessary approvals, we will not be able to generate substantial product or royalty revenues and may not become profitable. We and our collaborators may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure regulatory approvals. Factors that raise uncertainty in obtaining these regulatory approvals include the following: • we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the proposed product is safe and effective for its intended use; • we have limited experience in conducting the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval; and • data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory agencies or by us if it is believed that the patients participating in trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if deficiencies are found in the clinical trial procedures. In addition, our or our collaborators’ failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties and other actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. Although we recently announced positive results of a second Phase III study initiated in March 2008, manufacture of clinical trial supplies and commercial supplies are also in progress, as well as completion of the non-clinical and other clinical requirements necessary for an NDA filing, which is anticipated before the end of calendar 2009. The efforts related to the development of vilazodone or any other product candidates may be delayed for any of the reasons described above, and may take longer than anticipated to initiate and/or to complete. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we will be subject to on-going government regulation. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, our products will be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record keeping requirements, submitting periodic reports to the FDA, reporting of any adverse experiences with the product, and complying with drug sampling and distribution requirements. In addition, updated safety and efficacy information must be maintained and provided to the FDA. We or our collaborative partners, if any, must comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling, including the prohibition against promoting and non-FDA approved or “off-label” indications or products. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant enforcement action by the FDA, including warning letters, orders to pull the promotional materials, and substantial fines. Quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. Drug and biologics manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their facilities and products manufactured annually with the FDA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to assess compliance with cGMP regulations. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs and other aspects of regulatory compliance. Further FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution or require substantial resources to correct. After FDA approval of a product, the discovery of problems with a product or the failure to comply with requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved marketing application. These include withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary or FDA-initiated action that could delay or prevent further marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications. Also, the FDA may require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the product’s safety or efficacy, including additional clinical studies, known as Phase IV trials, to evaluate long-term effects. 26 Table of Contents Compliance with post-marketing regulations may be time-consuming and costly and could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the commercialization of our drug candidates. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs which may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in preparing and submitting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain timely regulatory approvals, if we receive such approval at all. We will not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates, until we obtain either FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable authorities in other countries. Third parties engaged to produce our drug candidates for clinical use may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, which could harm our clinical trials. We intend to rely on third parties to produce drug candidates for clinical use. All facilities and manufacturing processes used by third parties to produce our drug products for clinical use in the United States must conform with cGMPs. These facilities and practices are subject to periodic regulatory inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements. Their failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend, delay, or cause the termination of clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Our operations involve hazardous materials and medical waste and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations Any claim relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of biological and hazardous materials could be time-consuming and costly, and may exceed our resources. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation, including those governing the use of biological and hazardous materials as well as medical waste. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations is substantial. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all material rules and regulations governing the use of hazardous materials and, to date, we have not had any adverse experiences, in the event of accident or environmental discharge. We may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves animal testing and changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures or social pressures could restrict our use of animals in testing and adversely affect our research and development efforts. Many of the research and development we sponsor involve the use of laboratory animals. Changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures may adversely affect these research and development efforts. Social pressures that would restrict the use of animals in testing or actions against us or our partners by groups or individuals opposed to testing using animals could also adversely affect these research and development efforts. In addition, pre-clinical animal studies conducted by us or third parties on our behalf may be subject to the United States Department of Agriculture regulations for certain animal species. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend or delay clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry Concerns regarding the use of genetic testing results may limit the commercial viability of any products we develop. Other companies have developed genetic predisposition tests that have raised ethical concerns. It is possible that employers or others could discriminate against people who have a genetic predisposition to certain diseases. Concern regarding possible discrimination may result in governmental authorities enacting restrictions or bans on the use of all, or certain types of, genetic testing. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use 27 Table of Contents genetic tests even if permissible. These factors may limit the market for, and therefore the commercial viability of, products that our collaborators and/or we may develop. If we were sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product which is made using our technologies, causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks are inherent in the development of pharmaceutical and related methodologies. If we choose to obtain product liability insurance but cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of products that we or our commercial partners develop may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies and government agencies in the development and marketing of products and services. A number of companies are attempting to rapidly identify and patent genes that cause diseases or an increased susceptibility to diseases. Competition in this field and our other areas of business, including drug discovery and development, is intense and is expected to increase. We have numerous competitors, including major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions, and other government-sponsored entities and companies providing healthcare information products. Our collaborators may compete with us. Many of our competitors, either alone or with collaborators, have considerably greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities and technical and other resources than we do, which may allow them to discover important genes or develop drugs based on such discoveries before we do. We believe that a number of our competitors are developing competing products and services that may be commercially successful and that are further advanced in development than our potential products and services. Even if we are successful in developing effective products or services, our products and services may not successfully compete with those of our competitors, including cases where the competing drugs use the same mechanism of action as our products. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products and services that are more effective than ours or that are marketed before ours. Competitors have established, and in the future may establish, patent positions with respect to gene sequences related to our research projects. Such patent positions or the public availability of gene sequences comprising substantial portions of the human genome could decrease the potential value of our research projects and make it more difficult for us to compete. We may also face competition from other entities in gaining access to DNA samples used for research and development purposes. Our competitors may also obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that could limit our rights, or our customers’ ability, to use our technologies or databases or commercialize therapeutic or diagnostics products. In addition, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to proprietary technology. We expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made and become more widely known. Our future success will depend in large part on maintaining a competitive position in the genomic field. Rapid technological development may result in products or technologies becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses we incur in developing them. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability and that of our collaborators to: • develop proprietary products; • develop and maintain products that reach the market first, and are technologically superior to and more cost effective than, other products on the market; • obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies; • attract and retain scientific and product development personnel; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • manufacture, market and sell products that we develop. 28 Table of Contents Intense competition could reduce our market share or limit our ability to increase market share, which could harm our financial performance. The medical products industry is rapidly evolving and developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Competition in this industry, which includes our medical instrumentation, reagent and consulting services businesses, is intense and expected to increase as new products, technologies and services become available and new competitors enter the market. Our competitors in the United States and globally are numerous and include, among others, large, multi-national diagnostic testing and medical products companies. Our future success depends upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products, technologies and services in our areas of focus. Our competitors may: • develop technologies, products and services that are more effective than our products or services, or that render our technologies, products or services obsolete or noncompetitive; • obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would prevent us from developing our potential products; or • obtain regulatory approval for the commercialization of their products more rapidly or effectively than we do. Also, the possibility of intellectual property rights disputes with competitors holding domestic and foreign patent and other intellectual property rights may limit or delay expansion possibilities for our businesses. In addition, many of our existing or potential competitors have or may have substantially greater financial and managerial resources, research and development capabilities, and clinical, manufacturing, regulatory and marketing experience. We operate in a very competitive environment. We expect to encounter intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our targeted application areas. We anticipate that our competitors in these areas will include: • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; • companies developing drug discovery technologies; • companies developing molecular diagnostic and genetic tests; and • companies developing point-of-care diagnostic and genetic tests. If we are successful in developing products in these areas, we will face competition from established companies and numerous development-stage companies that continually enter these markets. In many instances, competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than us. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than us and may offer discounts as a competitive tactic. In addition, several development-stage companies are currently making or developing products that compete with or will compete with our potential products. Competitors may succeed in developing, obtaining approval from the FDA, or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or potential products or that render our technologies and current or potential products obsolete. Competitors may also develop proprietary positions that may prevent us from successfully commercializing products. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock or other securities may dilute our stockholders. We may sell common stock or other securities in the future in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock or other securities in one or more transactions, existing stockholders who previously purchased our securities may be materially diluted by such subsequent sales. 29 Table of Contents If the investors in our private placements sell their shares, which have been registered under the Securities Act, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. The shares of common stock issued to the investors in our September 2008, June 2006 and November 2005 private placements, as well as any shares issuable upon the conversion of the $50.0 million convertible notes sold in February 2009, as well as the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued to the investors in those transactions, have been registered, or in the case of the February 2009 private placement, will be registered, under the Securities Act of 1933, known as the Securities Act, and such shares are freely transferable without restriction under the Securities Act (but may be subject to the short-swing profit rules and other restrictions on affiliates under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). If a large number of shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. Our ownership is concentrated among a small number of stockholders. Our ownership is concentrated among a small number of stockholders, including Randal J. Kirk, our Chairman, and his affiliates. Mr. Kirk and his affiliates hold approximately 46.3% of our outstanding common stock as of 12, 2009, and are thus able to exert substantial control over various corporate matters including approvals of mergers, sales of assets, issuance of capital stock and similar transactions. The price of our common stock is volatile and could cause investors to lose a substantial part of their investment. The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, experience volatility which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. Our common stock is thinly traded and its price could decline regardless of our company’s actual operating performance. Investors also could lose a substantial part of their investment as a result of industry or market-based fluctuations. If a more active public market for our common stock is not created, it may be difficult for stockholders to resell their shares. A number of additional factors also could cause the prevailing market prices of our common stock to fluctuate significantly and could adversely impact such prices and the ability of our company to raise additional equity capital. Such factors include but are not limited to the following: • the timing of our announcements or of our competitors’ announcements regarding significant products, contracts or acquisitions; • variations in results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; • general economic and market conditions; and • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur. We may issue preferred stock with rights that could affect your rights and prevent a takeover of the business. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and to issue up to 1.5 million shares of preferred stock (less any shares previously designated). In addition, Delaware corporate law imposes limitations on certain business combinations. These provisions could, under certain circumstances, delay or prevent a change in control of us and, accordingly, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the near future. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 