Item 1A. Risk Factors Significant initiatives implemented and changes in our management and organizational structure may continue to adversely impact our operating results. Mr. Daniel J. Hanrahan was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective August 6, 2012. During fiscal year 2013, the Company began executing upon a number of significant strategic initiatives to support and focus on its business strategies to return the Company to sustainable long-term growth and profitability. The Company rolled out a new point-of-sale system and salon workstations in over 95% of its North American salons, restructured the Company's North American field organization and is standardizing plan-o-grams and eliminating retail products. In addition, the Company's management is engaged in a strategic review of non-core assets to focus on our core business of operating beauty salons, improving long-term profitability and maximizing shareholder value. Initiatives and changes of this magnitude and scope, both individually and collectively, may continue to affect our operating results. If we continue to have negative same-store sales our business and results of operations may be affected. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales, as well as both cost of service and product and operating margins. Comparable same-store sales are affected by average ticket and same-store guest visits. A variety of factors affect same-store guest visits, including the guest experience, fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, changes in our product assortment, the effectiveness of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable same-store sales to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations. Our comparable same-store sales results for fiscal year 2013 declined 2.4 percent compared to fiscal year 2012. If negative same-store sales continue and we are unable to offset the impact with operational savings, our financial results may be further affected and we may be required to take impairment charges. Such impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. During 15 Table of Contents fiscal year 2013 we did not record any goodwill impairment charges. During fiscal years 2012 and 2011, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $67.7 and $74.1 million associated with our Regis and Promenade salon concepts, respectively. During fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, we recorded fixed asset impairment charges of $8.2, $6.6 and $6.5 million, respectively. The concept that has the highest likelihood of impairment is Regis. Furthermore, continued declines in same-store sales performance may cause us to be in default of certain covenants in our financing arrangements. Our business is based on the success of our salons which is driven by the success of our stylists. It is important for us to attract and retain talented stylists. Guest loyalty is highly dependent upon the stylist who is providing services to our guests. Our main objective is to have our guests leave feeling satisfied and wanting to return. To ensure our guests are receiving the best possible care, we need to focus on retaining and attracting highly qualified stylists. To continue to be successful in the future we will need to continue to offer competitive wages, benefits and education and training programs to attract and retain talented stylists. Any shortcomings by stylists or the training and guidance they receive, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the guest service experience or compliance with safety and health regulations, may be attributed to the Company as a whole, thus damaging our reputation and brand equity and potentially affecting our results of operations. The effect of changes to healthcare laws in the United States may increase the number of employees who participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our operating results. We offer comprehensive healthcare coverage to eligible full-time and part-time employees in the United States. While we have relatively low minimum work hour requirements for United States employees to be eligible for healthcare coverage under our healthcare plans, for various reasons a majority of our eligible employees do not participate in our plans. However, many eligible employees who do not participate in our healthcare plans may find it more advantageous to do so when recent changes to healthcare laws in the United States become effective. Such changes include potential fees to individuals for not obtaining healthcare coverage and being denied certain healthcare subsidies if an eligible employee declines healthcare coverage under an employer's plan. The possibility of increased enrollment when or after the law becomes effective and clarification around uncertainties with respect to this pending legislation may significantly increase our healthcare coverage costs and negatively impact our operating results. Changes in regulatory and statutory laws may result in increased costs to our business. With 9,763 locations and 50,000 employees worldwide, our financial results can be adversely impacted by regulatory or statutory changes in laws. Due to the number of people we employ, laws that increase minimum wage rates, employment taxes or increase costs to provide employee benefits may result in additional costs to our company. None of our employees are currently subject to collective bargaining arrangements. If we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely impact our labor costs. Compliance with new, complex and changing laws may cause our expenses to increase. In addition, any non-compliance with these laws could result in fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to laws that affect the franchisor-franchisee relationship. 16 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our management information systems. If our systems fail to perform adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our results of operations may be affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to collect daily sales information and guest demographics, generate payroll information, monitor salon performance, manage salon staffing and payroll costs, inventory control and other functions. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate, or to meet the continuously evolving needs of our business, could disrupt our business and may adversely affect our operating results. If we are not able to successfully compete in our business markets, our financial results may be affected. Competition on a market by market basis remains strong as many smaller chain competitors are franchise systems with local operating strength in certain markets. Therefore, our ability to raise prices in certain markets can be adversely impacted by this competition. If we are not able to raise or maintain prices, our ability to grow same-store sales and increase our revenue and earnings may be impaired. Changes in the general economic environment may impact our business and results of operations. Changes to the United States, Canadian and United Kingdom economies have an impact on our business. General economic factors that are beyond our control, such as interest rates, exchange rates, recession, inflation, deflation, tax rates and policy, energy costs, unemployment trends, and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending, may impact our business. In particular, visitation patterns to our salons can be adversely impacted by increases in unemployment rates and decreases in discretionary income levels. Failure to control costs may adversely affect our operating results. We must continue to control our expense structure. Failure to manage our cost of product, labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, operating lease costs, other store expenses or indirect spending could delay or prevent us from achieving increased profitability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. Certain of the terms and provisions of the convertible notes we issued in July 2009 may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and impose other risks. In July 2009, we issued $172.5 million aggregate principal amount of our 5.0 percent convertible senior notes due 2014 in a public offering. Certain terms of the notes we issued may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results or impose other risks, such as the following: •Under certain circumstances, holders of notes may convert their notes into shares of our common stock, which may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders, •If we elect to settle all or a portion of the conversion obligation exercised by holders of the notes through the payment of cash, it could adversely affect our liquidity, •Holders of notes may require us to purchase their notes upon certain fundamental changes, and any failure by us to purchase the notes in such event would result in an event of default with respect to the notes. Failure to optimize our brand portfolio could have a negative impact on our financial results. To be successful in the future, we must focus on optimizing our brands to increase their value and growth. Optimization of our brands will enable us to simplify our operating model. Failure to do so 17 Table of Contents could adversely impact our ability to grow revenue and realize further efficiencies within our results of operations. Changes in our key relationships may adversely affect our operating results. We maintain key relationships with certain companies, including Walmart. Termination or modification of any of these relationships could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material and adverse impact on our business, our operating results and our ability to grow. Changes in manufacturers' choice of distribution channels may negatively affect our revenues. The retail products we sell are licensed to be carried exclusively by professional salons. The products we purchase for sale in our salons are purchased pursuant to purchase orders, as opposed to long-term contracts and generally can be terminated by the producer without much advance notice. Should our product manufacturers decide to utilize other distribution channels, such as large discount retailers, it could negatively impact the revenue earned from product sales. If our joint ventures are unsuccessful our financial results may be affected. We have entered into joint venture arrangements with other companies in the hair salon and beauty school businesses. If our joint venture partners are unwilling or unable to devote their financial resources or marketing and operational capabilities to our joint venture businesses, or if any of our joint ventures are terminated, we may not be able to realize anticipated profits in the countries where our joint ventures operate and our business could be materially adversely affected. If our joint venture arrangements are not successful, we may have a limited ability to terminate or modify these arrangements. If any of our joint ventures are terminated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new joint venture partners to continue the activities of the terminated joint venture or to operate independently in the countries in which the terminated joint venture conducted business. During fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we recorded noncash impairments of $17.9 and $19.4 million related to our investment in EEG. Due to economic, regulatory and other factors, we may be required to take additional noncash impairment charges related to our investments and such noncash impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. In addition, our joint venture partners may be required to take noncash impairment charges related to long-lived assets and goodwill, and our share of such noncash impairment charges could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. Our share of EEG's goodwill balances as of June 30, 2013 is approximately $16 million. Changes to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results from operations. Changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates will have an impact on our expected results from operations. Historically, we have managed the risk related to fluctuations in these rates through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and other financial instruments. Changes in fashion trends may impact our revenue. Changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends can have an impact on our financial performance. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our guests, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves processing, transmission and storage of personal information about our guests. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability 18 Table of Contents to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop visiting our salons altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 