Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe significant initiatives we have implemented and recent changes in our management and organizational structure may continue to adversely impact our operating results.During fiscal year 2013, the Company began executing upon a number of significant foundational initiatives to support and focus on its business strategies to return the Company to sustainable long-term growth and profitability. The Company has since rolled out new POS systems and salon workstations in all of its North American salons, restructured the Company’s North American field organization, standardized plan-o-grams and simplified its retail product assortments, and enhanced its asset protection capabilities. In addition, the Company’s management engaged in a strategic review of non-core assets to focus on our core business of operating beauty salons, improving long-term profitability and maximizing shareholder value.These initiatives correspond with changes in our executive management team over the last two years. These changes have driven change in our business and our mid-level leadership, which will take time to produce consistent results. In addition, now that our new executive management team is substantially in place, it could be disruptive to our business if one of our executive management members left the Company with little notice.During fiscal year 2014, our operating results were negatively impacted as a result of the foundational changes the Company implemented in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2014, our same-store sales declined 4.8% from the comparable prior period. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $34.9 million associated with the Regis salon concept, non-cash long-lived asset impairment charges of $18.3 million and $84.4 million of non-cash charges to establish a valuation allowance against the United States (U.S.) and United Kingdom (U.K.) deferred tax assets. If we are unable to reverse these trends and effectively execute upon our foundational initiatives, our financial results may continue to be negatively affected and we may be required to take future impairment charges. Such impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations.If we continue to have negative same-store sales our business and results of operations may be affected.Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales, as well as both cost of service and product and operating margins. Comparable same-store sales are affected by average ticket and same-store guest visits. A variety of factors affect same-store guest visits, including the guest experience, fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, changes in our product assortment, the effectiveness of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable same-store sales to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations. Our comparable same-store sales results for fiscal year 2014 declined 4.8% compared to fiscal year 2013. If negative same-store sales continue and we are unable to offset the impact with operational savings, our financial results may be further affected and we may be required to take impairment charges. Such impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. During fiscal years 2014 and 2012, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $34.9 and $67.7 million, respectively, both 13Table of Contentsassociated with our Regis salon concept. During fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded fixed asset impairment charges of $18.3, $8.2 and $6.6 million, respectively.Our business is based on the success of our salons which is driven by the success of our stylists. It is important for us to attract, train and retain talented stylists.Guest loyalty is highly dependent upon the stylist who is providing services to our guests. Our main objective is to have our guests leave feeling satisfied and wanting to return. To ensure our guests are receiving the best possible care, we need to focus on attracting, training and retaining highly qualified stylists. To continue to be successful in the future we will need to continue to offer competitive wages, benefits and education and training programs to attract and retain talented stylists. Any shortcomings by stylists or the training and guidance they receive, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the guest service experience or compliance with safety and health regulations, may be attributed to the Company as a whole, thus damaging our reputation and brand equity and potentially affecting our results of operations.Changes in regulatory and statutory laws, such as increases in the minimum wage and changes that make collective bargaining easier, may result in increased costs to our business.With 9,674 locations and approximately 49,000 employees worldwide, our financial results can be adversely impacted by regulatory or statutory changes in laws. Due to the number of people we employ, laws that increase minimum wage rates, employment taxes or increase costs to provide employee benefits may result in additional costs to our Company. A number of states and cities in which we do business have recently increased or are considering increasing the minimum wage, with increases generally phased over several years depending upon the size of the employer. Minimum wage rate increases could significantly increase our costs, and our ability to offset increases in minimum wage rates through price increases is limited. In addition, changes in labor laws could increase the likelihood of some or all of our employees being subjected to greater organized labor influence. If a significant portion of our employees were to become unionized, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Increases in the minimum wage and unionization could also have an adverse effort on the performance of our franchisees, especially if our franchisees are treated as a "joint employer" with us by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) or as a large employer under minimum wage statues because of their affiliation with us. With respect to the NLRB, it is anticipated that its current standard for joint employer relationships may become more lenient and, as such,we may face an increased risk of being alleged to be a joint employer with our franchisees. In addition, we must comply with state employment laws, including the California Labor Code, which has stringent requirements and penalties for non-compliance. We are also subject to the federal laws and regulations affecting public companies and governing the franchisor-franchisee relationship, among others. Compliance with new, complex and changing laws may cause our expenses to increase. In addition, any non-compliance with laws or regulations could result in penalties, fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to healthcare laws in the U.S. may increase the number of employees who participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our operating results.We offer comprehensive healthcare coverage to eligible employees in the United States. Historically, a majority of our eligible employees do not participate in our healthcare plans. Due to recent changes to healthcare laws in the United States pursuant to the Affordable Care Act (ACA), it is possible that enrollment in the Company’s healthcare plans may increase as a result of provisions regarding automatic enrollment of new eligible employees. Furthermore, potential fees and or penalties may be assessed as a result of individuals either not being offered healthcare coverage within a limited timeframe or if coverage offered does not meet minimum care and affordability standards. An increase in the number of employees who elect to participate in our healthcare plans or if the Company fails to comply with one or more provisions of ACA may significantly increase our healthcare-related costs and negatively impact our operating results.If we fail to protect the security of sensitive information about our guests, employees, vendors or company, we could be subject to negative publicity, costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer.The nature of our business involves processing, transmission and storage of personal information about our guests as well as employees, vendors and our Company. Cyber-attacks designed to gain access to sensitive information by breaching mission critical systems of large organizations are constantly evolving, and high profile electronic security breaches leading to unauthorized release of sensitive guest information have occurred recently at a number of large U.S. companies. Our efforts to protect sensitive guest and employee information may not be successful in preventing a breach in our systems. As a result of a breach in our systems, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause 14Table of Contentsthem to stop visiting our salons altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, as the regulatory environment relating to retailers and other companies' obligation to protect sensitive data becomes stricter, a material failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory sanctions and potentially to lawsuits. These laws are changing rapidly and vary between jurisdictions. In addition, while our franchisees are independently responsible for data security at franchised locations, a breach of guest or vendor data at a franchised location could also negatively affect public perception of our brands.We rely heavily on our management information systems. If our systems fail to perform adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our results of operations may be affected.The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to collect daily sales information and guest demographics, generate payroll information, monitor salon performance, manage salon staffing and payroll costs, inventory control and other functions. Certain of our management information systems are developed and maintained by external vendors, including our POS system. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate, or to meet the continuously evolving needs of our business, could disrupt our business and may adversely affect our operating results.Failure to control costs may adversely affect our operating results.We must continue to control our expense structure. Failure to manage our cost of product, labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, operating lease costs, other store expenses or indirect spending could delay or prevent us from achieving increased profitability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. We rely on external vendors.We rely on various external vendors for products and services critical to our operations. Our dependence on vendors exposes us to reputational, financial, and compliance risk. Our vendors are also responsible for the security of certain Company data. In the event that one of our key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products and services, or their systems fail or are compromised, we may suffer operational difficulties and financial loss.Changes in manufacturers' choice of distribution channels may negatively affect our revenues.The retail products we sell are licensed to be carried exclusively by professional salons. The products we purchase for sale in our salons are purchased pursuant to purchase orders, as opposed to long-term contracts and generally can be terminated by the producer without much advance notice. Should our product manufacturers decide to utilize other distribution channels, such as large discount retailers, it could negatively impact product sales revenue. In addition as e-commerce evolves and expands, our product sales could negatively be impacted if we are unable to sell retail products in a similar fashion. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants in our financing arrangements, we may not be able to access our existing revolving credit facility, and we may face an accelerated obligation to repay our indebtedness.We have several financing arrangements that contain financial and other covenants. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants, it may cause a default under one or more of our financing arrangements, which could limit our ability to obtain additional financing under our existing credit facility, require us to pay higher levels of interest or accelerate our obligations to repay our indebtedness.Our continued success depends in part on the success of our franchisees, who operate independently.As of June 30, 2014, approximately 23% of our salons are franchised locations. We derive revenues associated with our franchised locations from royalties, service fees and product sales to franchised locations. Our financial results are therefore dependent in part upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. As we increase our focus on our franchise business, our dependence on our franchisees grows.We have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run. Though we have established operational standards and guidelines, they own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their salon locations. If franchisees do not successfully operate their salons in compliance with our standards, our brand reputation and image could be harmed and our financial results could be affected. In addition, our franchises are subject to the same general economic risks as our Company, and their results are influenced by competition, market trends, and disruptions in their markets due to severe weather and other external events. They may also be limited in their ability to open new locations by an inability to secure adequate financing, especially since many of them are small businesses with much more limited access to financing than our Company, or by the limited supply of favorable real estate for new salon locations. A deterioration in the financial results of our franchisees, or a failure of our 15Table of Contentsfranchisees to renew their franchise agreements, could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments, fees and product revenues. If we are not able to successfully compete in our business markets, our financial results may be affected.Competition on a market by market basis remains challenging as many smaller chain competitors are franchise systems with local operating strength in certain markets. Therefore, our ability to attract guests, raise prices and secure suitable locations in certain markets can be adversely impacted by this competition. If we are not able to successfully compete, our ability to grow same-store sales and increase our revenue and earnings may be impaired.Changes in the general economic environment may impact our business and results of operations.Changes to the U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom economies have an impact on our business. General economic factors that are beyond our control, such as interest rates, exchange rates, recession, inflation, deflation, tax rates and policy, energy costs, unemployment trends, extreme weather patterns, other casualty events and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending, may impact our business. In particular, visitation patterns to our salons can be adversely impacted by increases in unemployment rates and decreases in discretionary income levels.Failure to simplify and standardize our operating processes across our brands could have a negative impact on our financial results.Standardization of operating processes across our brands, marketing and products will enable us to simplify our operating model and decrease our costs. Failure to do so could adversely impact our ability to grow revenue and realize further efficiencies within our results of operations.Changes in our key relationships may adversely affect our operating results.We maintain key relationships with certain companies, including Walmart. In particular, we have 2,700 SmartStyle/Cost Cutters salons within Walmart locations, including 88 salons opened during fiscal year 2014. The continued operation and growth of this business is dependent on our relationship with Walmart. In addition, our company-owned locations are concentrated with leases with certain major regional and national landlords. Termination or modification of any of these relationships could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material and adverse impact on our business, our operating results and our ability to grow. If our investment with Empire Education Group is unsuccessful, our financial results may be affected.We have a joint venture arrangement with Empire Education Group (EEG), an operator of accredited cosmetology schools. If EEG is unwilling or unable to devote their financial resources or marketing and operational capabilities to our joint venture, or if our joint venture is terminated, we may not be able to realize anticipated profits and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, regulatory changes in the for-profit secondary educational market have had negative business impacts including declines in enrollment, revenues and profitability. If our joint venture arrangement with EEG is not successful, we may have a limited ability to terminate or modify this arrangement. If our joint venture with EEG is terminated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new joint venture partners to continue the activities or to operate that business independently.During fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we recorded noncash impairments of $17.9 and $19.4 million, respectively, related to our investment in EEG. Due to economic, regulatory and other factors, including declines in enrollment, revenue and profitability in the for-profit secondary educational market, we may be required to take additional noncash impairment charges related to our investments and such noncash impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. During fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012, we recorded our share of pre-tax noncash impairment charges recorded by EEG for goodwill and fixed and intangible assets of $21.2, $2.1 and $8.9 million, respectively. EEG may be required to take additional noncash impairment charges related to long-lived assets and goodwill or establish valuation allowances against certain of its deferred tax assets and our share of such noncash impairment charges or valuation allowances could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. EEG does not have any goodwill recorded as of June 30, 2014. As of June 30, 2014, our share of EEG's deferred tax assets was $7.8 million.Changes to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results from operations.Changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates will have an impact on our expected results from operations. Historically, we have managed the risk related to fluctuations in these rates through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and other financial instruments.Changes in fashion trends may impact our revenue.16Table of ContentsChanges in consumer tastes and fashion trends can have an impact on our financial performance.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.