ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the following factors, among others, relating to Clinical Data: Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Operations If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed in the future, we might be unable to execute our operating and development plans, and if we succeed in raising capital, we might dilute your percentage ownership of the common stock or might subject our company to fixed payment obligations and restrictive covenants. Our projected uses of cash include cash to fund operations, including continued research and product development, sales and marketing, capital expenditures and existing debt service costs. We believe that our cash 14 Table of Contents resources will be sufficient to fund our operations through March 2011. We will need additional funds to continue operations and for the development (including approval) of vilazodone and Stedivaze and other potential products. Management is always evaluating and prioritizing additional sources of financing, and would consider any of the following options: • partnering opportunities for the marketing of vilazodone; • partnering opportunities for the development and marketing of Stedivaze; • sales of non-core assets; and/or • sales of equity and debt securities. If we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, our existing stockholders will be diluted and earnings per share could decrease. Capital raised through debt financing would require us to make periodic payments of interest and principal and might impose restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, additional financings might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Moreover, the terms of our outstanding convertible notes restrict our ability to finance our operations through the issuance of additional debt or shares of common stock. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available in amounts or terms acceptable to us, if at all. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that might be required to grow or maintain our operations. If we are unable to obtain financing or partnering opportunities, we may be required to implement cost reduction strategies, including decreasing our expenditures on research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses in anticipation of development and commercial launch of our products. The postponement or cancellation of any of these development and commercialization efforts could have a material adverse impact on our planned operations and future operating results. Given our current product development efforts, which have resulted in significant net losses, we expect to incur further net losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. At March 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $339.7 million. We expect to incur substantial additional operating losses over the next several years as our research, development, preclinical testing and clinical trial activities increase, particularly with respect to Stedivaze. Moreover, to become profitable, we, either alone or with collaborators, must successfully develop, manufacture and market vilazodone, as well as our future product candidates, including Stedivaze, and other products and continue to leverage our existing technologies to generate revenue. This process of commercialization, especially as it relates to building a sales force and establishing distributions channels for vilazodone, for instance, will be time consuming and costly. It is possible that we will never have significant enough revenue to become profitable or sustain profitability. If we are unable to obtain marketing approval of vilazodone, our results of operations will suffer. In order to market our lead therapeutic candidate, vilazodone (as well as any other of our therapeutic products that successfully complete the clinical trial process), in the U.S., we will need to obtain marketing approval from the FDA. Our NDA for vilazodone was submitted on March 22, 2010, accepted for review by the FDA on May 21, 2010, and assigned a PDUFA date of January 22, 2011. While we have not yet submitted any application for marketing approval of vilazodone in any other jurisdiction, we would need the approval of equivalent regulatory authorities in any other country or territory in which we sought such approval. If we are unable to obtain marketing approval for vilazodone, or if it is delayed, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. A regulatory authority may deny or delay an approval because it was not satisfied with the structure or conduct of clinical trials or due to its assessment of the data we supply. A regulatory authority, for instance, may not believe that we have adequately established a product’s risk-benefit profile or 15 Table of Contents adequately addressed negative safety signals. In addition, the FDA may convene an advisory committee concerning the vilazodone NDA that may not vote in support of approval of the NDA. While such a vote would not be binding on the FDA, it could harm the prospects for approval of our NDA. Clinical data are subject to varied interpretations, and regulatory authorities may disagree with our assessments of our data. In any such case, a regulatory authority could insist that we provide additional data, which could substantially delay or even prevent commercialization efforts, particularly if we are required to conduct additional pre-approval clinical studies. We may not successfully develop or derive revenues from any products. Any pharmaceutical product that we or our collaborators are able to develop will fail to produce revenues unless we: • establish that they are safe and effective; • establish that they are clinically valid and useful; • successfully compete with other technologies and products; • ensure that they do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others; • establish that they can be safely manufactured in sufficient quantities at reasonable costs; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for them; and • market them successfully. We may not be able to meet some or all of these conditions. We expect that it will be at least a year, if ever, before we will recognize significant revenue from the commercialization of vilazodone. For our other therapeutic and diagnostic products still in clinical trials, such as Stedivaze, we expect that it will be years before we will recognize revenue, if any, from the sales of such products. We have never marketed a drug before, and if we are unable to establish an effective sales force and marketing infrastructure either directly or in collaboration with a third party, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates successfully. We plan to market or co-promote our products in the U.S. markets. We currently do not have any internal sales, distribution or marketing capabilities for pharmaceutical products. The development of a sales and marketing infrastructure for U.S. markets will require substantial resources, will be expensive and time consuming and could negatively impact our commercialization efforts, including delay of any product launch. These costs may be incurred in advance of any marketing approval. In addition, we may not be able to hire a sales force in the U.S. that is sufficient in size or has adequate expertise in the medical markets that we intend to target. If we are unable to establish our sales force and marketing capability, our operating results would be adversely affected. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. Even if we gain marketing approval of our drug candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of these products may depend on a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; • published studies demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; • adequate reimbursement for our products from payors; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. The failure of our drugs, if approved for marketing, to gain acceptance in the market would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. 16 Table of Contents If our products are not granted adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, we may be unable to successfully commercialize them and we may never achieve widespread market acceptance of our products. Our ability to successfully sell our drugs and other products in the U.S. and other countries depends on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payors such as private insurance plans, managed care organizations and Medicare and Medicaid. Most of our revenues for such products are and will be dependent on customers who rely on third party reimbursement. Third-party payors may influence the pricing or perceived attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement they provide or by not providing any reimbursement. Medical community or third-party healthcare payors may deny or delay acceptance of our products or may provide reimbursement at levels that are inadequate to support adoption of our products. If these payors do not reimburse for our drugs, or only provide reimbursement significantly below the costs of such products, our potential market and revenues will be materially limited. Use of our products may never become widely reimbursed and the level of reimbursement we obtain may never be sufficient to permit us to generate substantial revenue. If we are unable to develop and/or in-license or otherwise acquire new products and technologies, we may not be able to grow our company successfully. To date, we have relied significantly on acquisitions and in-licensing of intellectual property for our growth. For example, since 2005 we have acquired seven companies, including Genaissance, which provided us with our lead drug candidate, vilazodone, and many of the assets at PGxHealth. If we are unable to develop products and services internally, or to acquire companies or other technologies, we may not be able to continue our growth or to establish a leadership position in our industry. Additionally, even if such companies and/or other assets are available, we may not be able to acquire them on reasonable terms and therefore be required to pay a premium for their acquisition. Because a significant portion of our total assets are represented by goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that are subject to mandatory annual and potentially interim impairment evaluations and definite-lived intangible assets that are reviewed for impairment if certain conditions exist, we could be required to write-off some or all of this goodwill and intangible assets, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 35.4%, or $35.0 million, of our total assets at March 31, 2010 are comprised of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, of which approximately $31.8 million is goodwill. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The unamortized values of definite-lived intangibles are reviewed if certain conditions exist. There was no impairment charge during fiscal 2010. When we perform future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment. Such adjustment would result in a charge to earnings in that period. Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods. We might enter into new acquisitions that are difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. Our success will depend in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We expect to seek to acquire businesses, technologies or products that will complement or expand our existing business, including acquisitions that could be material in size and scope. Any acquisition we might make in the future might not provide us with the benefits we anticipated in entering into the transaction. Any future acquisitions involve various risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; • the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; 17 Table of Contents • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; • unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition; • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. An acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges and large one-time write-offs. Acquisitions also could result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which might result in future impairment charges. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders will be diluted. From time to time, we might enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Those negotiations could result in diversion of management time and significant out-of-pocket costs. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we could fail to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon certain key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management, legal and scientific staff, including Andrew J. Fromkin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, C. Evan Ballantyne, our Chief Financial Officer, Caesar J. Belbel, our Chief Legal Officer, Carol R. Reed, M.D., our Chief Medical Officer, and James P. Shaffer, our Chief Commercial Officer. The loss of the service of any of these persons or other senior managers and key scientific and other personnel could seriously harm our business operations, product development and commercialization efforts. In order to conduct clinical trials and to market our drugs, we will have to develop approved methods to produce these drugs using appropriate quality controls and at commercially viable rates. In order to conduct clinical trials and ultimately to market any drugs we may develop, we or our third party contractors will need to obtain chemicals and components and, in some cases, licenses for proprietary formulation technology necessary for the manufacture of the products from third parties. We or our contractors will then need to implement the necessary technology in order to produce the drugs to exacting standards set by us and regulatory authorities. This is an uncertain and time-consuming process; any disruption in it may delay or harm our ability to continue clinical development or commercialization of our products. For drugs which have reached the last stage of clinical trials, we or our contractors will have to develop methods to scale up the production of the drug at commercially viable rates. If we are not able to scale the process in a timely manner or do not have the ability to produce the drug economically, we may not be able to enter the market with a viable product. This would harm our financial and commercial prospects. If we cannot successfully form and maintain suitable arrangements with third parties for the manufacturing of the products we may develop, our ability to develop or deliver products may be impaired. We have little experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and do not have manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, we must either develop such facilities, which will require substantial additional funds, or rely on contract manufacturers for the production of products for development and commercial purposes. We have signed contracts with suppliers for the production of vilazodone material and tablets for our clinical trials and for commercial drug and drug product and have contracted for sufficient materials, so we are therefore completely reliant on these contract manufacturers to fulfill these requirements. In some cases, these third party manufacturers and suppliers are our sole source of drug product and/or tablets for vilazodone. Failure of those contract manufacturers would seriously harm our ability to successfully commercialize vilazodone and our ability to complete our clinical trial programs for any of our compounds in development and to have suitable product to commercialize. 18 Table of Contents New drug development is a lengthy and complex process, and we may be unable to commercialize any of the products we develop. Before we can develop drugs and gain marketing approval, we need to accomplish some or all of the following: • identify compounds with chemical, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic properties appropriate for human development; • complete nonclinical studies related to the pharmacologic and toxicologic properties of the compound; • submit an IND to the FDA or equivalent application to other regulatory agencies to begin first-in-human studies; • undertake clinical trials to establish the efficacy, safety, and other aspects of our drug candidates; • successfully manufacture drug substance and drug product for clinical trial and commercial uses; • expend significant resources; • maintain and expand our intellectual property rights; • obtain, where necessary, marketing approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for the intended indication; and • find collaborative partners with manufacturing and commercial capabilities for our current and future drug candidates. The process of developing new drugs takes years. Our product development efforts may fail for many reasons, including: • the failure of products in the research and development stage; • the high cost of clinical trials and our lack of financial and other resources; • the inability to acquire sufficient resources to assist in conducting clinical trials; and • the inability to establish the safety and efficacy or clinical utility of our products. Success in early clinical trials is not replicated often in later studies; few research and development projects result in commercial products. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate or we may be required to expend considerable resources repeating clinical trials, which would adversely impact the timing for revenues from those product candidates. In addition, as we develop products, we may partner with third parties or be required to make significant investments in product development, marketing and selling resources. If a clinical study fails to demonstrate the prospectively defined endpoints of the study, we may abandon the development of the product or product feature that was the subject of the clinical trial, which could harm our business. Our operations may be affected by unexpected problems frequently encountered in connection with the development and transition to other technologies and by the competitive environment in which we operate. Even if we are successful in establishing genetic associations or in demonstrating safety and efficacy of a drug candidate in clinical trials, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in our product development efforts. Even if we develop products for commercial use, these products may not be accepted by the research, diagnostic, medical and pharmaceutical marketplaces or be capable of being offered at prices that will enable us to become profitable. Our products may not ultimately prove to be useful for commercial markets, meet applicable regulatory standards or be successfully marketed. Covenants in our convertible notes restrict our financial and operational flexibility. We are subject to certain covenants under the convertible notes we issued in 2009 that restrict our financial and operational flexibility. For example, we are restricted from incurring additional indebtedness, redeeming or declaring or paying any cash dividend or cash distribution on our common stock, or issuing or selling any rights, 19 Table of Contents warrants or options to subscribe for or purchase our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock at a price which is less than the then market price of the common stock, other than in connection with an underwritten public offering. As a result of these covenants, our ability to finance our operations through the incurrence of additional debt or the issuance of shares of our common stock is limited. Risk Factors Relating to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect effectively our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business and third parties may use our technology, both of which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our technologies and products throughout the world. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we will operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We will rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us or our subsidiaries may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents that have been issued to us or our subsidiaries or that may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we plan to compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive will be materially impaired. The patent positions of life science companies are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our business could be hurt by any of the following: • pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • the claims of any issued patents may not provide meaningful protection; • the claims of any issued patents may be invalidated or held unenforceable under current law or upon changes in patent law; • we may be unsuccessful in developing additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • our patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties; and • others may have patents that relate to our technology or business. Third parties have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering biomarkers and related methods that we have developed or may develop technology upon which our technology platform depends. If patent offices issue patents on these patent applications and we wish to use those biomarkers or technology, we would need to obtain licenses from third parties. However, we might not be able to obtain any such license on commercially favorable terms, if at all, and if we do not obtain these licenses, we might be prevented from using certain technologies or taking certain products to market. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade-secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair its competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. 20 Table of Contents If third parties make or file claims of intellectual property infringement against us, or otherwise seek to establish their intellectual property rights, we may have to spend time and money in response and cease some of our operations. Third parties may claim that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization or that we are infringing on their patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending against any of these claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief which could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, courts may order us to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us from commercializing available products. Any patent protection we obtain for our products may not prevent marketing of similar competing products. Patents on our products may not prevent our competitors from designing around and developing similar compounds or compounds with similar modes of action that may compete successfully with our products. Such third party compounds may prove to be superior to our products or gain wider market acceptance and thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. Patents on our testing products may not prevent our competitors from designing around and developing similar tests that may compete successfully with our products. Such third party tests may prove to be superior to our products or gain wider market acceptance and thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. Any patents we obtain may be challenged by producers of generic drugs. Patents covering innovative drugs, which are also commonly referred to as “branded drugs” or “pioneer drugs,” face increased scrutiny and challenges in the courts from manufacturers of generic drugs who may receive benefits such as limited marketing co-exclusivity if the challenge is successful. Such patent challenges typically occur when the generic manufacturer files an Abbreviated NDA with the FDA and asserts that the patent or patents covering the branded drug are invalid or unenforceable, forcing the owner or licensee of the branded drug to file suit for patent infringement. If any patents we obtain covering our pharmaceutical products are subject to such successful patent challenges, our marketing exclusivity may be eliminated or reduced in time, which would thus adversely affect any revenue stream that we could otherwise expect from sales of our products. Patents pending may not issue. A number of our products are covered by patent applications that have not yet had their claims approved. Though we only submit patent applications that we believe have a reasonable probability of issuing, there is significant risk the patent applications may not be granted, or, if they are granted, may be granted with claims significantly less desirable than for which were originally applied. We may be unable to achieve milestones contained in our licensing agreements and have our license revoked by our licensors. Obtaining the milestones set forth in some of our licensing agreements requires performance on the part of us and may also depend on the successful work of suppliers, contractors, and sub-licensees. We cannot assure that there will be scientific, operational, or other success that will enable us to achieve the milestones to which we have agreed. Nor can we guarantee that we will be able to successfully renegotiate milestones with our licensors in the event that we desire or need to do so. In such instances, revocation of its license to the intellectual property upon which our business is built is a possibility and would significantly decrease our opportunities for success. Alternatively, licensors may impose additional goals or requirements on us in order to agree to extend the time of performance of our existing goals. Any termination of license agreements could significantly decrease our opportunities for success. 21 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Regulatory Matters Preclinical and clinical trials are time consuming, expensive, and uncertain processes. Before the FDA approves a drug candidate for marketing, it is tested for safety and efficacy in preclinical testing and human clinical trials. The preclinical phase involves the discovery, characterization, product formulation and animal testing necessary to prepare an IND for submission to the FDA. The IND must be accepted by the FDA before the drug can be tested in humans in the U.S. The clinical phase of development follows a successful IND submission and involves the activities necessary to demonstrate the safety, tolerability, efficacy, dose and dose schedule of the product candidate in humans, as well as the ability to produce the drug substance and drug product in accordance with cGMP requirements. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. During the process, we expect to incur significant expenses to conduct trials and follow required regulatory processes. Positive results from preclinical studies and clinical trials do not ensure positive results in late stage clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. We do not know when, or if, our current clinical trials will be completed. Many factors affect patient enrollment including: • the size of the patient population; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; • the eligibility criteria for the trial and the demands of completing the trial; • alternative therapies or technologies; and • competing clinical trials and new drugs approved for the conditions or indications we are investigating. As a result of all of these factors, our trials may take longer to enroll patients than we anticipate. Such delays may increase our costs and slow down our product development and the regulatory approval process. Our product development costs will also increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. The occurrence of any of these events will delay our ability to generate revenue from product sales and impair our ability to become profitable, which may cause us to have insufficient capital resources to support our operations. Additionally, we cannot be certain that the necessary types of patients can be enrolled in the required time frame, if ever. The clinical program for Stedivaze, for instance, may require the enrollment of patients with severe cardiac disease and these patients may be difficult or impossible to enroll. We may have to rely upon significant enrollment of patients at sites outside of the U.S., which may produce results that lack comparability to the U.S. population. It may also be necessary to utilize marketed products in our clinical trials, for example, as active comparators. We cannot be certain that supplies of other agents will be available for our trials. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory agencies or by us if it is believed that the patients participating in trials are being exposed to unacceptable risks or if deficiencies are found in the clinical trial procedures. In addition, our or our collaborators’ failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in failure to gain marketing approval, criminal prosecution, civil penalties and other actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. Regulatory approval of vilazodone or other products may be delayed, may require additional studies to be conducted or may not be obtained. Due to the risks and uncertainties in drug development, products, such as vilazodone, that we or our collaborators develop could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect, may require additional resources to gain FDA approval or may never gain FDA approval. If we or our collaborators do not receive these necessary approvals, we will not be able to generate substantial product or royalty revenues and may not become profitable. We and our collaborators may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our 22 Table of Contents efforts to secure regulatory approvals. Factors that raise uncertainty in obtaining these regulatory approvals include the following: • we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the proposed drug product is safe and effective for its intended use; • data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals; and • we have limited experience in manufacturing and supply of the drug substance and drug product, which is necessary to gain regulatory approval and to commercialize the drug product. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we will be subject to on-going government regulation. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, our products will be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record keeping requirements, submitting periodic reports to the FDA, reporting of any adverse experiences with the product, and complying with Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies and drug sampling and distribution requirements. In addition, updated safety and efficacy information must be maintained and provided to the FDA. We or our collaborative partners, if any, must comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling, including the prohibition against promoting and non-FDA approved or “off-label” indications or products. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant enforcement action by the FDA, including warning letters, orders to pull the promotional materials, and substantial fines. Quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. Drug and biologics manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their facilities and products manufactured annually with the FDA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to assess compliance with cGMP regulations. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs and other aspects of regulatory compliance. Further FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution or require substantial resources to correct. After FDA approval of a product, the discovery of problems with a product or its class, or the failure to comply with requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved marketing application. These include withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary or FDA-initiated action that could delay or prevent further marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data, including from other products in a therapeutic class, may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications. Also, the FDA may require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the product’s safety or efficacy, including additional clinical studies, known as Phase IV trials, to evaluate long-term effects. It is also possible that rare but serious adverse events not seen in our clinical development program of vilazodone or other drug candidates may be identified after marketing approval. This could result in withdrawal of our product from the market. Compliance with post-marketing regulations may be time-consuming and costly and could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the commercialization of our drug candidates. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third-party manufacturers and we or such third parties may encounter failures or difficulties that could delay the clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates, or their ultimate commercial production if approved. We utilize third parties to manufacture all of our drug products and certain of those third parties are our sole source of drug product for vilazodone. We do not own manufacturing facilities that can produce sufficient quantities of drug product for large-scale clinical trials. Accordingly, we must either develop such facilities, which will require substantial additional capital resources, or rely, at least to some extent, on third-party manufacturers for the production of these substances. Furthermore, should we obtain FDA approval for any of our drug products, we 23 Table of Contents expect to rely on third-party manufacturers for commercial production. Our dependence on others for manufacturing needs may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver drug products on a timely and competitive basis. Any performance failure on the part of us or a third-party manufacturer could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or, ultimately, sales of our drug candidates. We or third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, regulatory compliance, lot release, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Approval of our drug candidates could be delayed, limited or denied if the FDA does not approve our or a third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities. Moreover, the ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply drug candidates is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of the manufacturing facilities, which is impacted by many manufacturing variables including: • availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier; • capacity of our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers; • facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses or cross contamination; • compliance with regulatory requirements, including Form 483 notices and Warning Letters; • changes in forecasts of future demand; • timing and actual number of production runs; • production success rates and bulk drug yields; and • timing and outcome of product quality testing. In addition, we or our third-party manufacturers may encounter delays and problems in manufacturing our drug candidates or drugs for a variety of reasons, including accidents during operation, failure of equipment, delays in receiving materials, natural or other disasters, political or governmental changes, or other factors inherent in operating complex manufacturing facilities. Supply chain management is complex, and may involve sourcing from a foreign country or countries. Commercially available starting materials, reagents and excipients may become scarce or more expensive to procure, and we may not be able to obtain favorable terms in agreements with subcontractors. We or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to operate our respective manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective manner or in a time frame that is consistent with our expected future manufacturing needs. If we or our third-party manufacturers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party manufacturers and other service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, such interruption could delay progress on our programs, or interrupt the commercial supply, with the potential for additional costs and lost revenues. If this were to occur, we may also need to seek alternative means to fulfill our manufacturing needs. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. If those parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all. In the course of our discovery, preclinical testing and clinical trials, we rely on third parties, including laboratories, investigators, clinical research organizations and manufacturers, to perform critical services for us. For example, we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our preclinical studies. Clinical research organizations are responsible for many aspects of the trials, including the recruitment and enrollment of patients. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. These third parties may not be available when we need them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner, and we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical 24 Table of Contents trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. These independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. In addition, if such third parties fail to perform their obligations in compliance with our clinical trial protocols or GCPs, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements or may need to be repeated. As a result of our dependence on third parties, we may face delays or failures outside of our direct control. These risks also apply to the development activities of collaborators, and we do not control collaborators’ research and development, clinical trials or regulatory activities. Our operations involve hazardous materials and medical waste and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations. Any claim relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of biological and hazardous materials could be time-consuming and costly, and may exceed our resources. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation, including those governing the use of biological and hazardous materials as well as medical waste. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations is substantial. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all material rules and regulations governing the use of hazardous materials and, to date, we have not had any adverse experiences, in the event of accident or environmental discharge. We may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves animal testing and changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures or social pressures could restrict our use of animals in testing and adversely affect our research and development efforts. Many of the research and development programs we sponsor involve the use of laboratory animals. Changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures may adversely affect these research and development efforts. Social pressures that would restrict the use of animals in testing or actions against us or our partners by groups or individuals opposed to testing using animals could also adversely affect these research and development efforts. In addition, preclinical animal studies conducted by us or third parties on our behalf may be subject to the U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations for certain animal species. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend or delay clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry If we were sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product which is made using our technologies, causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks are inherent in the development of pharmaceutical and related methodologies. If we choose to obtain product liability insurance but cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of products that we or our commercial partners develop may be prevented or inhibited. Product liability claims, whether or not they have merit, could decrease demand for our products, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our core business, require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages, all of which could prevent or interfere with the commercialization and development of products and adversely affect our business. Claims of this nature could also subject us to product recalls or harm our reputation, which could damage our position in the market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies and government-sponsored entities in the development and marketing of products and services. Drug discovery and development and in other areas of business including genetic testing, is intense and is expected to increase. We have numerous competitors, including major pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions, and other government-sponsored 25 Table of Contents entities and companies. Our collaborators may compete with us. Many of our competitors, either alone or with collaborators, have considerably greater capital resources, research and development staff, facilities and technical and other resources than we have, which may allow them to discover important genes or develop drugs based on such discoveries before we do. We believe that a number of our competitors are developing competing products and services that may be commercially successful and that are further advanced in development than our potential products and services. Even if we are successful in developing effective products or services, our products and services may not successfully compete with those of our competitors, including cases where the competing drugs use the same mechanism of action as our products. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products and services that are more effective than ours or that are marketed before ours. Competitors have established, and in the future may establish, patent positions with respect to gene sequences related to our research projects. Such patent positions or the public availability of gene sequences comprising substantial portions of the human genome could decrease the potential value of our research projects and commercial products and make it more difficult for us to compete. We may also face competition from other entities in gaining access to DNA samples used for research and development purposes. Our competitors may also obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that could limit our rights, or our customers’ ability, to use our technologies or databases or commercialize therapeutic or diagnostics products. In addition, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to proprietary technology. We expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made and become more widely known. Our future success will depend in large part on maintaining a competitive position in the genomic field. Rapid technological development may result in products or technologies becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses we incur in developing them. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability and that of our collaborators to: • develop proprietary products; • develop and maintain products that reach the market first, and are technologically superior to and more cost effective than, other products on the market; • obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies; • attract and retain scientific and product development personnel; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • manufacture, market and sell products that we develop. In the U.S. there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to reform the health care system in ways that could adversely impact the available reimbursement for, and therefore our ability to sell our products profitably. In the U.S., federal and state agencies continue to promote efforts to reduce healthcare costs. As a result of reimbursement and legislative proposals, and the trend toward managed health care in the U.S., third-party payors, including government and private payors, are also increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. These cost-containment methods may include, but are not limited to, using formularies, which are lists of approved or preferred drugs, requiring prior authorization or step therapy, which is a program to encourage using lower cost alternative treatments, basing payment amounts on the least costly alternative treatment, or refusing to provide coverage of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. Cost control initiatives could adversely affect the commercial opportunity or decrease the price of our products and may impede the ability of potential users of our products to obtain reimbursement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and future business prospects. 26 Table of Contents We operate in a very competitive environment. We expect to encounter intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our targeted application areas. We anticipate that our competitors in these areas will include: • diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies; • companies developing drug discovery technologies; • companies developing molecular diagnostic and genetic tests; and • companies developing point-of-care diagnostic and genetic tests. If we are successful in developing products in these areas, we will face competition from established companies and numerous development-stage companies that continually enter these markets. In many instances, competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than us. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than us and may offer discounts as a competitive tactic. In addition, several development-stage companies are currently making or developing products that compete with or will compete with our potential products. Competitors may succeed in developing, obtaining approval from the FDA, or marketing technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or potential products or that render our technologies and current or potential products obsolete. Competitors may also develop proprietary positions that may prevent us from successfully commercializing products. Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock Conversion of outstanding convertible notes and exercise of outstanding warrants could significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The conversion or exercise of some or all of our outstanding convertible notes and warrants could significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. As of March 31, 2010, there were 6,110,600 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, which have a conversion price of $8.18 per share, and 4,262,354 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants, which have a weighted average exercise price of $11.88 per share. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Moreover, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of such convertible notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or the anticipated conversion of such convertible notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. If the investors in our private placements sell their shares, which have been registered under the Securities Act, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. As of March 31, 2010, an aggregate of 15,955,761 shares of common stock have been registered under the Securities Act for sale by stockholders in connection with certain transactions completed by us. The registered shares consist of shares issued to investors in private placements in September 2008, June 2006 and November 2005, shares issuable upon conversion of outstanding convertible notes, and shares issuable upon exercises of outstanding warrants assumed in connection with various acquisitions. The registrations of those shares currently are effective, and therefore the registered shares are freely transferable. If a large number of shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that the stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Our directors, executive officers and their affiliated entities have substantial control over us and could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of March 31, 2010, our executive officers, directors and their affiliated entities, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 61.7% of our outstanding common stock (which percentage reflects the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of certain convertible notes and exercise of certain warrants issued to Randal J. Kirk and his affiliates). In particular, Randal J. Kirk, our Chairman, and his affiliated entities, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 57.4% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Kirk and his affiliated entities are able to control or significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders might have interests that differ from yours, and they might vote in a way with which you disagree and that could be adverse to your interests. The concentration of common stock ownership could have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, and could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock is volatile and could cause investors to lose a substantial part of their investment. The stock market in general and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, experience volatility which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. Our common stock is thinly traded and its price could decline regardless of our company’s actual operating performance. Investors also could lose a substantial part of their investment as a result of industry or market-based fluctuations. If a more active public market for our common stock is not created, it may be difficult for stockholders to resell their shares. A number of additional factors also could cause the prevailing market prices of our common stock to fluctuate significantly and could adversely impact such prices and the ability of our company to raise additional equity capital. Such factors include but are not limited to the following: • the timing of our announcements or of our competitors’ announcements regarding significant products, contracts or acquisitions; • variations in results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; • general economic and market conditions; and • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock into the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur. We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the market prices of securities of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have been extremely volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our corporate documents and Delaware Law make a takeover of our company more difficult, which could prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of the common stock. Our charter and by-laws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that could enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. For example, our board of directors has the 28 Table of Contents authority, without further approval of our stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and to cause our company to issue, up to 1.5 million shares of preferred stock. These provisions could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. They could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of the common stock. Some provisions in our charter and by-laws could deter third parties from acquiring us, which could limit the market price of the common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and consequently, investors’ only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the near future. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. Future equity issuances or a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Because we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to expand our business and our research and development activities, among other things, we may conduct additional equity offerings. If we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. A decline in the market price of our common stock could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 