ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Demand for existing products may decline. Demand for our products depends upon, among other factors, the level of capital expenditures by current and prospective customers, the rate of economic growth in the markets in which we compete and the competitiveness of our products. Changes in any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We must continue to assess and predict customer needs and evolving technologies. We must develop new products, including enhancements to existing products, and successfully manufacture, market and sell these products. If we are unsuccessful in these areas, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our inability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Delays in development, testing, manufacture and/or release of new products could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner and achieve market acceptance of our products, or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Market acceptance of newly developed products may be slower than anticipated. The markets for our products are competitive and may be characterized by rapid technological change, new product development and evolving industry standards. If technologies supported by our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread acceptance, our business could be harmed. Current and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than us, and have greater name recognition and market acceptance of their products and technologies. Our competitors may develop new technologies or products that may offer superior price or performance features and may render our products and technologies obsolete and noncompetitive. 10 Pricing pressures from our customers and/or market pressure from competitors may reduce selling prices. Many of customers are under continuous pressure to reduce costs and, therefore, we expect to continue to experience pressure from these customers to reduce the prices of the products that we sell to them. To offset declining average sales prices, we believe that we must achieve manufacturing cost reductions and increase our sales volumes. If we are unable to offset declining average selling prices, our gross margins will decline, and this decline could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We also compete with companies which have substantially larger operations and greater financial, engineering, marketing, production and other resources than we have. These competitors may develop their products more quickly, devote greater marketing and sales resources, or offer more aggressive pricing, than we can. As a result, this could cause us to lose orders or customers or force reductions in selling prices, all of which would have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Difficulty in obtaining an adequate supply of raw materials or components at reasonable prices. The Company depends on outside suppliers for raw materials, components and parts, and services. Although items are generally available from a number of suppliers, the Company purchases certain raw materials and components from a single supplier. If such a supplier should cease to supply an item, the Company believes that new sources could be found to provide the raw materials and components. However, manufacturing delays and added costs could result. The Company has not experienced significant delays of this nature in the past, but there can be no assurance that delays in delivery due to supply shortages will not occur in the future. Substantial periods of lead time for delivery of certain materials are sometimes experienced by the Company, making it necessary to inventory varied quantities of materials. Loss of key personnel or the inability to attract new employees. Our success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly those involved in the development of new products and processes and the manufacture of existing products. The competition for these individuals is significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business. 11 AVAILABLE INFORMATION - --------------------- Our Internet address is www.microwavefilter.com. There we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10- Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations link of our Web site. The information found on our Web site is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room located at 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains electronic versions of our reports on its website at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 