Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in the general economic environment may impact our business and results of operations. Changes to the United States, Canadian, United Kingdom, Asian and other European economies have an impact on our business. General economic factors that are beyond our control, such as interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, tax rates and policy, energy costs, unemployment trends, and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending, may impact our business. In particular, visitation patterns to our salons and hair restoration centers can be adversely impacted by increases in unemployment rates and decreases in discretionary income levels. If we continue to have negative same-store sales our business and results of operations may be affected. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales, as well as both gross margins and operating margins. Comparable same-store sales are affected by average ticket and same-store customer visits. A variety of factors affect same-store customer visits, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, changes in our product assortment, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations. Our comparable same-store sales results for the twelve months ended June 30, 2011 declined 1.7 percent compared to the twelve months ended June 30, 2010. We impaired $74.1 million of goodwill associated with our Promenade salon concept during fiscal year 2011. We impaired $35.3 million of goodwill associated with our Regis salon concept during fiscal year 2010. We also impaired $41.7 million of goodwill associated with our salon concepts in the United Kingdom during fiscal year 2009. If negative same-store sales continue and we are unable to offset the impact with operational savings, our financial results may be further affected. We may be required to take additional impairment charges and to impair certain long-lived assets and goodwill and such impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. The concepts that have the highest likelihood of impairment are Promenade, Regis, and Hair Restoration Centers. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to improve our comparable same-store sales on a long-term basis or offset the impact with operational savings, our financial results may be affected. Furthermore, continued declines in same-store sales performance may cause us to be in default of certain covenants in our financing arrangements. Failure to control cost may adversely affect our operating results. We must continue to control our expense structure. Failure to manage our cost of product, labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, operating lease costs, other store expenses or indirect spending could delay or prevent us from achieving increased profitability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. Changes in our key relationships may adversely affect our operating results. We maintain key relationships with certain companies, including Walmart. Termination or modification of any of these relationships, including Walmart, could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material and adverse impact on our business, our operating results and our ability to grow. Changes in fashion trends may impact our revenue. Changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends can have an impact on our financial performance. For example, trends in wearing longer hair may reduce the number of visits to, and therefore, sales at our salons. Changes in regulatory and statutory laws may result in increased costs to our business. With approximately 12,700 locations and 55,000 employees worldwide, our financial results can be adversely impacted by regulatory or statutory changes in laws. Due to the number of people we employ, laws that increase minimum wage rates or increase costs to provide employee benefits may result in additional costs to our company. Compliance with new, complex and changing laws may cause our expenses to increase. In addition, any non-compliance with these laws could result in fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to laws that affect the franchisor-franchisee relationship. If we are not able to successfully compete in our business segments, our financial results may be affected. Competition on a market by market basis remains strong. Therefore, our ability to raise prices in certain markets can be adversely impacted by this competition. If we are not able to raise prices, our ability to grow same-store sales and increase our revenue and earnings may be impaired. If our joint ventures are unsuccessful our financial results may be affected. We have entered into joint venture arrangements with other companies in the hair salon and beauty school businesses in order to maintain and expand our operations in the United States, Asia and continental Europe. If our joint venture partners are unwilling or unable to devote their financial resources or marketing and operational capabilities to our joint venture businesses, or if any of our joint ventures are terminated, we may not be able to realize anticipated revenues and profits in the countries where our joint ventures operate and our business could be materially adversely affected. If our joint venture arrangements are not successful, we may have a limited ability to terminate or modify these arrangements. If any of our joint ventures are terminated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new joint venture partners to continue the activities of the terminated joint venture or to operate independently in the countries in which the terminated joint venture conducted business. 24 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2011, we recorded an impairment of $9.2 million related to our investment in MY Style. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded impairments of $25.7 million and $7.8 million ($4.8 million net of tax) related to our investment in Provalliance and investment in and loans to Intelligent Nutrients, LLC, respectively. Due to economic and other factors, we may be required to take additional impairment charges related to our investments and such impairments could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. In addition, our joint venture partners may be required to take impairment charges related to long-lived assets and goodwill, and our share of such impairment charges could be material to our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. Our share of our investment's goodwill balances as of June 30, 2011 is $102.1 million. We are subject to default risk on our accounts and notes receivable. We have outstanding accounts and notes receivable subject to collectability. If the counterparties are unable to repay the amounts due or if payment becomes unlikely our results of operations would be adversely affected. For example, during the twelve months ended June 30, 2011 the Company recorded a $31.2 million valuation reserve on the note receivable from the purchaser of Trade Secret to reflect the net realizable value. Changes in manufacturers' choice of distribution channels may negatively affect our revenues. The retail products that we sell are licensed to be carried exclusively by professional salons. The products we purchase for sale in our salons are purchased pursuant to purchase orders, as opposed to long-term contracts and generally can be terminated by the producer without much advance notice. Should the various product manufacturers decide to utilize other distribution channels, such as large discount retailers, it could negatively impact the revenue earned from product sales. Changes to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results from operations. Changes in interest rates will have an impact on our expected results from operations. Currently, we manage the risk related to fluctuations in interest rates through the use of variable rate debt instruments and other financial instruments. We rely heavily on our management information systems. If our systems fail to perform adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our results of operations may be affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to collect daily sales information and customer demographics, generate payroll information, monitor salon performance, manage salon staffing and payroll costs, inventory control and other functions. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate, or to meet the continuously evolving needs of our business, could disrupt our business and may adversely affect our operating results. The Company plans to implement a new point-of-sale system in our salons during fiscal year 2012. Failure to effectively implement the point-of-sale system may adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves processing, transmission and storage of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop visiting our salons altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Certain of the terms and provisions of the convertible notes we issued in July 2009 may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and impose other risks. In July 2009, we issued $172.5 million aggregate principal amount of our 5.0 percent convertible senior notes due 2014 in a public offering. Certain terms of the notes we issued may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results or impose other risks, such as the following: •Holders of notes may convert their notes into shares of our common stock, which may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders, •If we elect to settle all or a portion of the conversion obligation exercised by holders of the notes through the payment of cash, it could adversely affect our liquidity, •Holders of notes may require us to purchase their notes upon certain fundamental changes, and any failure by us to purchase the notes in such event would result in an event of default with respect to the notes, •The fundamental change provisions contained in the notes may delay or prevent a takeover attempt of the Company that might otherwise be beneficial to our investors, •Recent changes in the accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash require us to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest as interest expense, which will decrease our financial results, •Our ability to pay principal and interest on the notes depends on our future operating performance and any failure by us to make scheduled payments could allow the note holders to declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, result in termination of other debt commitments and foreclosure proceedings by other lenders, or force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and •The debt obligations represented by the notes may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay our debt, limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and increase our vulnerability to downtowns in general economic conditions in our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 