Item 1A. Risk Factors If we are not able to increase our number of salons, we may not be able to grow our revenue and earnings. The key driver of our revenue and earnings growth is the number of salons we and our franchisees acquire or construct. Acquiring and constructing new salons is subject to the ability of our company and our franchisees to identify suitable sites and obtain financing for development. While we believe that substantial future acquisition and organic growth opportunities exist, any inability to identify and successfully complete future acquisitions or increase our same-store sales would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings growth. Changes in the general economic environment may impact our business and results of operations. Changes to the United States, Canadian, United Kingdom and other European economies have an impact on our business. As a result of our entrance into the Asian market, changes in the Asian economies may also impact our business. General economic factors that are beyond our control, such as interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, tax rates and policy, energy costs, unemployment trends, and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending, may impact our business. In particular, visitation patterns to our salons and hair restoration centers can be adversely impacted by changes in unemployment rates and discretionary income levels. Changes in our key relationships may adversely affect our operating results. We maintain key relationships with certain companies, including Wal-Mart. Termination or modification of any of these relationships could significantly reduce our revenues and have an adverse impact on our ability to grow or future operating results. Changes in fashion trends may impact our revenue. Changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends can have an impact on our financial performance. For example, trends in wearing longer hair may reduce the number of visits to, and therefore, sales at our salons. Changes in regulatory and statutory laws may result in increased costs to our business. With approximately 13,550 locations and 65,000 employees worldwide, our financial results can be adversely impacted by regulatory or statutory changes in laws. Due to the number of people we employ, laws that increase minimum wage rates or increase costs to provide employee benefits may result in additional costs to our company. Compliance with new, complex and changing laws may cause our expenses to increase. In addition, any non-compliance with these laws could result in fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to laws that affect the franchisor-franchisee relationship. If we are not able to successfully compete in our business segments, our financial results may be affected. Competition on a market by market basis remains strong. Therefore, our ability to raise prices in certain markets can be adversely impacted by this competition. If we are not able to raise prices, our ability to grow same-store sales and increase our revenue and earnings may be impaired. If our joint ventures are unsuccessful our financial results may be affected. We have entered into joint venture arrangements with other companies in the hair salon and beauty school businesses in order to maintain and expand our operations in the United States, Asia and continental Europe. If our joint venture partners are unwilling or unable to devote their financial 22 resources or marketing and operational capabilities to our joint venture businesses, or if any of our joint ventures are terminated, we may not be able to realize anticipated revenues and profits in the countries where our joint ventures operate and our business could be materially adversely affected. If our joint venture arrangements are not successful, we may have a limited ability to terminate or modify these arrangements. If any of our joint ventures are terminated, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new joint venture partners to continue the activities of the terminated joint venture or to operate independently in the countries in which the terminated joint venture conducted business. We may not be able to successfully convert the product assortment in Trade Secret concepts. We are in the early stages of converting the current product assortment in our Trade Secret concept to an assortment of products that includes professional hair care, skin, cosmetics and bath products. We believe that the conversion of the product assortment will attract new customers and improve comparable store sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to expand our business through the acceptance of an assortment of products that includes professional hair care, skin, cosmetics and bath products. If we are not able to execute this strategy, our comparable store sales and operating results may be adversely affected and could result in goodwill impairment. Changes in manufacturers' choice of distribution channels may negatively affect our revenues. The retail products that we sell are licensed to be carried exclusively by professional salons. The products we purchase for sale in our salons are purchased pursuant to purchase orders, as opposed to long-term contracts and generally can be terminated by the producer without much advance notice. Should the various product manufacturers decide to utilize other distribution channels, such as large discount retailers, it could negatively impact the revenue earned from product sales. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated costs savings related to our approved plan to close up to 160 stores in fiscal year 2009. In July of 2008, the Company approved a plan to close up to 160 underperforming company-owned salons in fiscal year 2009. The timing and costs of lease terminations and other costs associated with the salon closures may impact the Company's ability to realize the cost savings anticipated from the Company's approved plan. If we are unable to execute our store closures as planned, our operating results may be adversely affected. Changes to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results from operations. Changes in interest rates will have an impact on our expected results from operations. Currently, we manage the risk related to fluctuations in interest rates through the use of variable rate debt instruments and other financial instruments. During fiscal year 2008, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners downgraded Regis' private placement debt from investment-grade private placement to non-investment grade. The downgrade does not have any immediate effect on the private placement debt outstanding and corresponding interest rate as of June 30, 2008. Any future non-investment grade private placement debt would result in a substantially higher interest rate. The downgrade has no impact on the Company's current revolving credit facility or its ability to secure future bank borrowings. See discussion in Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," for additional information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 