Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The factors set out below may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the value of our stock. There may be other risks which are not known to us or which may not be material now but could turn out to be material. We depend heavily on construction sector activity levels, which tend to be cyclical and which differ throughout the regions in which we operate. Our results depend heavily on residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity and spending levels. The construction industry in our markets tend to be cyclical. Construction activity and spending levels vary across our markets and are influenced by interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, demographic shifts, environmental laws and regulations, employment levels and the availability of funds for public infrastructure projects. Economic downturns may lead to recessions in the construction industry, either in individual markets or nationally. While our geographic diversification mitigates risks associated with downturns in construction spending, we may be affected significantly by downturns nationally or in individually significant markets. Adverse weather lessens demand for our products, which is seasonal in many of our markets. Construction activity, and thus demand for our products, decreases substantially during periods of cold weather, when it snows or when heavy or sustained rains fall. Consequently, demand for our products is significantly lower during the winter, particularly in Canada and in the Northern United States, where winter weather significantly reduces our first quarter sales. Our operations in these and similar markets are seasonal, with sales generally peaking during the third quarter because of normally better weather conditions. However, high levels of rainfall can adversely impact our operations during this period as well. Such adverse weather conditions can materially and adversely affect our results of operations and profitability if they occur with unusual intensity, during abnormal periods, or last longer than usual in our major markets, especially during peak construction periods. 12 Competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all markets we operate in are highly competitive. In each of our business segments, we compete with several other domestic suppliers as well as with importers of foreign cement in our cement segment. Many factors affect the competitive environments we face in our markets. Among others, they include the number of competitors in the market, the pricing policies of those competitors, the financial strength of those competitors, the total production capacity serving the market, the barriers that potential competitors face to enter the market, the proximity of natural resources to the market, as well as economic conditions and product demand within the market. Such factors come together in each of our markets in varying ways, sometimes in ways that adversely impact demand for our products and our results of operations. Increased energy and fuel costs may have a material adverse effect on our results. Our operations consume significant amounts of energy. The price and availability of energy are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. As described more fully in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, we take measures to protect ourselves to some extent against rising energy and fuel costs. Despite these measures, energy and fuel costs have significantly affected, and may continue to affect, our financial condition results of operations and liquidity. Litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment, health and safety matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, tort claims and contract disputes. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process. Governmental policies and laws, particularly those relating to protection of the environment, could significantly impact our operations. As described more fully within “Environmental Matters” in Item 1 Business and Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our operations are regulated extensively by national and local governments, particularly in the areas of land use and protection of the environment (e.g. regulations relating to greenhouse gases). Our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. Stricter laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired. Our business organization is complex in scope. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. In connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent auditor issues an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. During this process, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, or areas for further attention or improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of certain personnel, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, or take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls. Any failure to maintain that adequacy or our ability to produce accurate financial statements (including the proper application of our critical accounting policies) on a timely basis could increase our operating costs and materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or subject to material 13 weaknesses or significant deficiencies or are otherwise perfectible, or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. As a result of significant growth in our operations in recent years, we recently began implementing an enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”). In 2006 and continuing through 2007, we will continue to implement various modules of the ERP system in a phased approach. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, bill customers and coordinate our sales activities across our products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. In addition, we may experience delays in such implementation or problems with the functionality of the ERP system, which could increase the expected cost of the implementation. We rely heavily on third-party transportation, which is subject to rate fluctuations and rail, shipping and trucking hazards. We rely heavily on third-party transportation to ship our products. Because freight costs represent a significant portion of our total cost to customers, fluctuations in freight rates can change the relative competitive position of our production facilities. Rail, shipping and trucking operations are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions and operating hazards, as well as slowdowns due to labor strikes and other work stoppages. If we are unable to ship our products as a result of the railroads or shipping or trucking companies failing to operate or if there are material changes in the cost or availability of rail, shipping or trucking services, we may not be able to arrange alternative and timely means to ship our products, which could lead to interruptions or slowdowns in our businesses. Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As described more fully in Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, a significant amount of our net assets and net income are attributable to subsidiaries that prepare their financial statements in Canadian dollars. Consequently, exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. and Canadian dollars may significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. This effect may be positive or negative depending on the actual exchange rate movement, as well as the nature of any currency hedging instruments we may put in place from time to time. Increase in our indebtedness could limit our operating and financial flexibility. At the end of 2005, we have $776.1 million of debt outstanding, which may increase in the future. If our total debt increases materially: a) we could face increased financial charges, b) we may need to allocate a greater portion of our operating cash flow to cover debt service payments, c) our credit ratings may be downgraded, with resultant increases in our borrowing costs and a possible decrease in the availability of adequate financing sources, d) our exposure to interest and exchange rate fluctuations may increase substantially, and e) lenders may impose significant restrictions on our capital resources and/or operations. Some of our debt agreements contain and some of our future debt agreements may contain financial, operating and other covenants and obligations that could limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to comply with these obligations depends on the future performance of our businesses. Our failure to abide by these obligations or to meet these covenants may impair our ability to finance operations, distribute dividends, finance acquisitions and expansions and maintain flexibility in managing our operations. 14 Changes in the cost or availability of raw materials supplied by third parties may adversely affect our operating and financial performance. We generally maintain our own reserves of limestone, gypsum, aggregates and other materials that we use to manufacture our products. Increasingly, however, we obtain certain raw materials from third parties who produce such materials as by-products of industrial processes, such as synthetic gypsum, slag and fly ash. While we try to secure our needed supply of such materials through long-term renewable contracts, we have not always been, and may not in the future be, able to do so. Should our existing suppliers cease operations or reduce or eliminate production of these by-products, our costs to procure these materials may increase significantly or we may be obliged to procure alternatives to replace these materials. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 