Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant risk factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. These risk factors could cause our future financial performance to differ from those in our forward-looking statements and from our historical trends. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. As a “smaller reporting company”, we are not required to provide any disclosures under Item 1A. In providing these risk factors, we do not represent, and no inference should be drawn, that the disclosures so provided comply with the requirements of Item 1A that would apply were we subject to them. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity and Our Indebtedness The ability to service our debt and meet pension funding requirements depends upon generating cash from operating activities and obtaining new sources of financing. During 2007, our operating activities provided nearly $10 million of cash with no pension funding requirements. Generating positive operating cash flows in the future is dependent upon a number of factors including our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and operating improvements and to grow our sales, particularly in our North America injection molding machine business. A recession in the U.S. could significantly reduce demand for our products. We have implemented significant cost saving initiatives in 2007 and in prior years that will favorably affect our operating cash flows and we expect to reduce our fixed cost structure further in 2008. Pension funding requirements for 2008 are approximately $30 million to $35 million and may need to be funded in part with debt. In March 2008, certain of our European subsidiaries entered into a new five-year asset-based revolving credit program for up to €27 million in aggregate financing. See the note to the Consolidated Financial Statements captioned “Subsequent Events” for more information regarding this new credit program. If we need to fund interest payments on our 111/2% Senior Secured Notes in part with the proceeds of borrowings under our asset based facilities and if we need to pursue alternative sources of liquidity to service our debt and pay our expenses, it is possible that we would not be able to sell assets, refinance debt or raise equity on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations under our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow or draw sufficient amounts under our asset based credit facility to satisfy our debt obligations and pay our other expenses, or our failure to comply with the covenants governing our indebtedness, could cause us to default on our obligations and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $261 million in total indebtedness. In addition, we and certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries had guaranteed $4.7 million of off-balance sheet obligations related to customer financings. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $77 million of borrowing-based availability under our asset based facility of which approximately $34 million was available to be borrowed. 10 Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion or even all of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • increase the amount of interest expense that we have to pay because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if increased, will result in higher interest payments; • increase our vulnerability to existing and future adverse economic and industry conditions if we incur further indebtedness; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets. Our asset based facility is subject to the borrowing base limitation, including an excess availability reserve. Failure to achieve compliance with covenants contained in any of our debt agreements could result in a loss of funding availability or a default under the related agreement, and could lead to acceleration of the related debt and acceleration of debt under the other agreements. If we were unable to meet our expenses, pension funding requirements and debt obligations, we would need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. If new debt is added to our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. In March 2008, certain of our European subsidiaries entered into a new five-year asset-based revolving credit program for up to €27 million in aggregate financing. See the note to the Consolidated Financial Statements captioned “Subsequent Events” for more information regarding this new credit program. Restrictions and covenants in debt agreements limit our ability to take certain actions. The indenture governing the 111/2% Senior Secured Notes and the credit agreement for our asset based credit facility contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • borrow money; • use assets as security in other borrowings or transactions; • pay dividends on capital stock or purchase capital stock; • sell assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • make certain investments or acquisitions. We are currently restricted by the terms of the indenture from paying cash dividends on our common stock as well as our Series B Preferred Stock. Failure to comply with the terms of one of our debt instruments could result in an event of default that would result in the acceleration of that instrument as well as all or most of our other indebtedness. Breaching any of our covenants, conditions or restrictions or the failure to comply with our obligations after the lapse of any applicable grace periods could result in a loss of funding availability or a default under the applicable debt instruments, including the credit agreement for our asset based facility. If there were an event of default, holders of such defaulted debt could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and 11 payable immediately. It is possible that our assets or cash flow or that of our subsidiaries would not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under the outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our asset based facility, the lenders under the facility could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In that event, any proceeds received upon a realization of such collateral would be applied first to amounts due under the asset based facility before any proceeds would be available to make payments on the 111/2% Senior Secured Notes. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our or our subsidiaries’ other debt instruments, including the 111/2% Senior Secured Notes. Our principal U.S. defined benefit pension plan is underfunded, which will require us to make cash contributions to the plan for the next several years, which, in turn, will reduce the cash available for our business, and adverse capital market or interest rate conditions may increase our net pension liability. Contributions required in 2008 and beyond will be based on the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, (the Act) which became effective on January 1, 2008. The funding provisions of the Act have the effect of increasing future contributions in relation to the amounts that would have been required under the legislation that the Act replaced. The amount of future contributions will be dependent on, among other things, the funded status of the plan and on the interest rates required to be used for funding purposes. Contributions required for 2008 are estimated to be $30 million to $35 million with approximately $20 million due in September. Contributions for 2009 are estimated to be $15 million to $20 million. However, contributions for 2010 and beyond cannot be reasonably quantified at this time. There is also a risk that the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the PBGC) may conclude that its risk with respect to our defined benefit plan may become unreasonably high if the plan continues to operate, if we are unable to satisfy our funding requirement or if the plan becomes unable to pay benefits. In such circumstances, the PBGC could terminate the plan and take control of its assets. In such event, we may be required to make an immediate payment to the PBGC of all or a substantial portion of the underfunding as calculated under PBGC assumptions, including a low discount rate. If such payment is not made, the PBGC could place liens on a material portion of our assets which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, failure to fund the pension plan as required by law (or incurring certain liens in connection with a failure to fund or seeking a waiver from funding obligations) would be a breach of the terms of our debt agreements and therefore a default. If such default is not cured or waived, our indebtedness could be accelerated, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. Finally, funding the pension plan might require the sale of significant business assets, which would adversely affect our ability to generate cash in the future. In addition, such sales of assets would generally require lender and, possibly, bondholder consent and it is possible that such consent would not be granted. “Ownership changes” for U.S. federal income tax purposes will cause utilization of our pre-change tax loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to be substantially delayed, which could increase income tax expense and decrease available cash in future years. The sale of a portion of our convertible preferred stock on October 2, 2007 triggered an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a consequence of the ownership change, the timing of our utilization of pre-change U.S. tax loss carryforwards and other tax attributes will be limited in the future. The amount of the annual limitation is expected to be approximately $5.7 million. The limitation has the potential to significantly increase tax expense and increase the amounts payable for income taxes in future years and thereby limit the amount of cash available to service our indebtedness and for use in our operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Many of our customers are in cyclical industries that have historically experienced significant downturns, which resulted in substantially reduced demand for our products. The success of our business depends on the profitability of our customers’ business. Many of our customers are in businesses that are highly cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as the automotive, building materials, electronics and consumer durables industries. Their demand for our products and 12 services changes as a result of general economic conditions (including increases in their cost structures and demand for their products), interest rates and other factors beyond our control. The performance of our business is directly related to the production levels of our customers. As an example, in 2006 and 2007, the automotive industry experienced a significant slowdown and closures of operating facilities, which has adversely affected the sale of our plastics machinery — particularly injection molding machines — and metalworking fluids. Declines in economic conditions in the industries served by our customers may continue to have a negative effect on our business and ability to increase operating cash flows. We operate in highly competitive industries, many of which are currently subject to intense price competition, and if we are unable to compete successfully our results of operations could fail to improve or could deteriorate. Many of the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets for plastics machinery and related products are highly competitive and include a number of North American, European and Asian competitors. Principal competitive factors in the plastics machinery industry are price, product features, technology, performance, reliability, quality, delivery and customer service. We also face many competitors in the industrial fluids segment of our business. Principal competitive factors in our industrial fluids segment include price, market coverage, technology, performance, delivery and customer service. Further increases in our cost structure could have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly for raw materials and purchased components used in our business, including the cost of labor and steel and the cost of oil and chemicals used in the production of metalworking fluids. Our success is dependent, in part upon our ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, costs savings projects and global sourcing actions. While we have responded by further reducing our cost structure and increasing the prices we charge our customers, these measures may not always be sufficient to offset the effects of the cost increases we experience. Our significant international operations depend to a great extent on the economy of the European and Asian markets and subject us to risks such as unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions. We are a global business with a significant portion of our operations and sales outside the U.S. Our financial targets depend in part on achieving significant growth in developing regions, including the Eastern European and Asian markets. Our results could be negatively impacted if expected growth in these regions is not realized. In some cases, these markets include countries with economies in various stages of development or structural reform, some of which are subject to rapid fluctuations in terms of political and economic stability, consumer prices, employment levels, gross domestic product, interest and foreign exchange rates. To the extent such fluctuations have an effect on the ability of our consumers to pay for our products, the growth of our products in such markets could be impacted negatively. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage through these uncertainties. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully manage in differing and unpredictable legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in each foreign market where we do business. Any of the foregoing factors may have an adverse effect on our ability to generate cash flow and grow our business. We are subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. These suits and proceedings concern issues including product liability, patent infringement, environmental matters and personal injury matters, some of which seek substantial dollar amounts. In certain suits, multiple plaintiffs allege personal injury involving products, supplied by us. We are vigorously defending these claims and, based on current information, believe we have recorded appropriate reserves in addition to excess carrier insurance coverage and indemnity claims against third parties. Were we to have significant adverse judgments or determine as 13 the cases progress that significant additional reserves should be recorded, our future operating results and financial condition, particularly our liquidity, could be adversely affected. If our common stock is delisted, it may lack a market. On September 18, 2007, we were informed by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) that the company had fallen below the NYSE’s continued listing standard related to average market capitalization. This standard requires that a company with stockholders’ equity of less than $75 million maintain total market capitalization of not less than $75 million over a thirty trading-day period. Under NYSE guidelines, we must return to compliance within 18 months following receipt of notification. In December 2007, we submitted to the NYSE a detailed plan to remedy the non-compliance through improved operating performance and other actions. While we believe the remediation will be successful, there can be no assurance that we will be able to return to compliance with the NYSE’s guidelines. If we are unsuccessful, it is possible that our stock will be delisted by the NYSE. Were this to happen, the market for our common stock could become more limited and it is possible that the per-share price would drop. The interests of our principal shareholders may conflict with those of other shareholders. Our Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into 5.7 million common shares which represents 51.0% of our as-converted common equity as of March 12, 2008. As of that date, Ohio Plastics, LLC, an affiliate of Bayside Capital, Inc. (Bayside) owned 57.5% of the Series B Preferred Stock representing 29.3% of our as-converted common equity. Pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of designation of the Series B Preferred Stock, the holders thereof have elected 7 of the 13 members of our board of directors, all of whom are employees of Bayside or its parent, H.I.G Capital. By virtue of its stock ownership, Bayside has the power to significantly influence our affairs and to influence, if not decide, the outcome of matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval, including amendments of our charter and bylaws. See the note to the Consolidated Financial Statements captioned “Shareholders’ Equity” for more information regarding our Series B Preferred Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 