ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Future loan losses may exceed our allowance for loan losses We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in our market areas or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. This deterioration in economic conditions could result in losses to the Bank in excess of loan loss allowances. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans are placed on non-accrual, thereby reducing interest income. To the extent loan charge-offs exceed our financial models, increased amounts charged to the provision for loan losses would reduce income. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are key drivers of our net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth particularly in construction lending, an important factor in Bancorp’s revenue growth over the past two years. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Slower than anticipated growth in new branches and new product and service offerings could result in reduced net income We have placed a strategic emphasis on expanding our branch network and product offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products. New branches and products require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new investments can decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by those investments, and opening new branches and introducing new products could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. The financial services industry is very competitive We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see “Business—Competition” in Item 1 above. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and income from deposits, loans, and other products may be reduced. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales of mortgage and SBA loans sold could adversely impact net income We originate and sell mortgage and certain Small Business Administration (“SBA”) loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold can decrease our revenues and net income. We may fail to complete or fail to realize anticipated benefits from our proposed acquisition of Mid-Valley Bank On February 1, 2006, Bancorp entered into a definitive agreement pursuant to which it agreed to acquire Mid-Valley Bank by means of a merger of Mid-Valley into West Coast Bank in which outstanding shares of Mid-Valley common stock will be exchanged for cash and common shares of Bancorp. Completion of the merger is subject to satisfaction of various conditions set forth in the merger agreement, including regulatory and Mid-Valley shareholder approvals, and therefore may or may not be completed. In addition, the combined bank may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of the transaction and integration issues could cause higher than anticipated expenses and lower benefits from the merger than currently anticipated. 10 Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively effect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 