Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report. Agreement and Plan of Merger On September 25, 2012, Bancorp entered into the Merger Agreement. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement a newly formed subsidiary of Columbia will merge with and into Bancorp (the “Merger”), with Bancorp continuing as the surviving corporation (the “Surviving Corporation”). As soon as reasonably practicable following the Merger, and as part of a single integrated transaction, the Surviving Corporation will be merged with and into Columbia (together with the Merger, the “Mergers”). Subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, Bancorp shareholders will have the right, with respect to each of their shares of Bancorp common stock, to elect to receive, subject to proration and adjustment, either cash, stock, or a unit consisting of a mix of cash and stock in an amount equal to their pro rata share (taking into account the Class C Warrants and in-the-money stock options on an as-exercised basis and shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of Series B Preferred Stock (including shares of Series B Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of the Class C Warrants)) of the total consideration, which consists of $264,468,650 in cash (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), plus the product of 12,809,525 shares of Columbia common stock multiplied by the volume weighted average price of Columbia common stock for the twenty trading day period beginning on the twenty fifth day before the effective time of the Merger. The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties from both Bancorp and Columbia. Bancorp has also agreed to various customary covenants and agreements, including, among others, (1) to conduct its business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice in all material respects during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the consummation of the Merger, (2) not to engage in certain kinds of transactions or take certain actions during this period without the prior written consent of Columbia (which may not be unreasonably withheld), (3) subject to certain exceptions, to convene and hold a meeting of its shareholders to consider and vote upon the Merger Agreement, (4) to recommend approval of the Merger Agreement to its shareholders and, subject to certain exceptions, not to withdraw or materially and adversely modify such recommendation, (5) not to initiate, solicit, encourage or knowingly facilitate any alternative proposal to acquire Bancorp, and (6) subject to certain exceptions, not to provide any non-public information in connection with any such alternative proposal, or engage in any discussions relating to any such proposal. Columbia has also agreed to various customary covenants and agreements. 10 The consummation of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including, among others, (1) approval by Bancorp shareholders of the Merger Agreement, (2) approval by Columbia shareholders of the issuance of Columbia common stock in connection with the Merger, (3) effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 for the Columbia common stock to be issued in the Merger, (4) authorization for listing on the NASDAQ Stock Exchange of the shares of Columbia common stock to be issued in the Merger, (5) the absence of any law, order, injunction or decree prohibiting or making illegal the closing of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and (6) receipt of required regulatory approvals. Each party’s obligation to consummate the Merger is also subject to certain additional customary conditions, including (i) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party, (ii) performance in all material respects by the other party of its obligations and (iii) the receipt by such party of an opinion from its counsel to the effect that the Mergers, taken together, will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights in favor of each of Columbia and Bancorp. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, Bancorp will be obligated to pay Columbia a termination fee of $20 million. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement in certain other limited circumstances, Columbia will be obligated to pay Bancorp a termination fee of $5 million. Certain terms of the Merger Agreement and other related agreements are summarized in, and the Merger Agreement has been filed as an exhibit to, the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Bancorp with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 1, 2012. Status of Regulatory Actions Regulatory Order. As of February 19, 2013, the regulatory order (the “Order”) between the Bank and the FDIC was terminated. On October 18, 2011, the Bank received the Order from the FDIC relating to its overdraft practices. As part of the Order, the Bank agreed to implement certain procedural improvements relating to its compliance function and overdraft program, pay a civil money penalty of $390,000, and make restitution to certain customers in accordance with the formula set out in the Order of approximately $246,000. Bank Memorandum of Understanding. On November 29, 2012, the Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) between the Bank, the FDIC and DFCS was terminated. The MOU required that during the life of the MOU the Bank may not pay dividends without the written consent of the FDIC and DFCS and that the Bank maintain higher levels of capital than required by published capital adequacy requirements. Holding Company Written Agreement. As of June 27, 2012, the Written Agreement between Bancorp and the Federal Reserve and the DFCS was terminated. The Federal Reserve continues to require that we inform and consult with it and seek a non-objection notice ahead of declaring and paying cash dividends to shareholders. Bancorp received such non-objection notices in conjunction with the $.05 per share shareholder cash dividends declared by its Board of Directors on September 25, 2012, and December 11, 2012, and paid in October 2012 and January 2013, respectively. 11 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are all material risks that management believes are specific to our business, in no particular order of likelihood or significance. Future loan losses may exceed our allowance for credit losses. We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans in accordance with their terms. We maintain an allowance for credit losses that represents management’s best estimate, as of a particular date, of the probable amount of loan receivables and unfunded commitments that the Bank will be unable to collect. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio involves difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic forecasts might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. These matters are inherently uncertain, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of estimates. In addition, if our estimates prove to be inaccurate and economic conditions are significantly less favorable than expected or we experience a rapid change in interest rates, our borrowers’ ability to repay loans could be adversely affected. Developments of this nature could result in losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses. If we determine that it is appropriate to increase the allowance for credit losses to address changing conditions, we will do so through additional provision for credit losses. Any additional provision for credit losses results in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and regulatory capital position. For more information regarding the Company’s allowance for credit losses, see the discussion under the subheading “Allowance for Credit Losses” and “Critical Accounting Policies” included in Item 7 of this report. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to continued deterioration in the real estate market in our market areas and other effects. Approximately 82% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As a result, we are vulnerable to declines in real estate values in the markets in which we operate. We have experienced challenging market conditions over the last four years and high levels of net charge-offs and provision for credit losses as a result. While net charge-offs and provision for credit losses have declined significantly, if we experience increases in delinquencies with respect to commercial real estate or other real estate related loans, or declines in real estate market values, we would expect increased loan charge-offs and additional provision for credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of our significant concentration in loans secured by real estate, we are particularly vulnerable to such effects. The recession has been particularly severe in the market areas we serve and our results of operations may be adversely affected if the local economies do not improve. Substantially all of our loans and loan opportunities are to businesses and individuals in our markets in Washington and Oregon. As evidenced by the unemployment rate in Oregon, which remained elevated at 8.4% in December 2012, our region has been severely impacted by the same challenges facing the economy nationally and perhaps more so. The region also experienced severe declines in residential and commercial real estate values between 2008 and 2012, before stabilizing recently. If economic conditions deteriorate or economic recovery in our market areas stalls, we could face the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: the value of assets that serve as collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline; loan delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans and other real estate owned properties (“OREO”) could increase; demand for our products and services may fail to accelerate or even decrease; and access to low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. Financial services legislation and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our businesses and results of operations. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities and multiple additional studies. The implementation of Dodd-Frank, including regulatory rules and regulations and related interpretations of those rules, could result in a number of adverse impacts on us. The levels of capital and liquidity that Bancorp and the Bank must maintain to operate may be increased, resulting in decreased leverage and reduced earnings. We may also be subjected to new and/or higher fees to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC. The Bank may also be subject to additional regulations under the newly established CFPB which has been given broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations. These and other provisions of Dodd-Frank could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider, impose additional costs on us, result in significant loss of revenue, impact the value of assets we hold, or otherwise significantly adversely affect our businesses. 12 Congressional and regulatory initiatives could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state legislators and regulators continue to pursue increased regulation of how loans are originated, purchased, and sold, and properties are foreclosed. These legislative and regulatory responses may impact how the Bank conducts business, makes and underwrites loans, and buys and sells loans in secondary markets, or lead to changes in the banking industry, lending markets and secondary markets for loans generally. We are unable to predict which legislative or regulatory initiatives will be implemented or what form they will take. Any such actions could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see the discussion under the subheading “Supervision and Regulation” included in Item 1 of this report. Significant legal and regulatory actions could subject us to uninsured liabilities, associated reputational risk, and reduced revenues. From time to time, we are sued for damages or threatened with lawsuits relating to various aspects of our operations. We may also be subject to investigations and possibly substantial civil money penalties assessed by, or other actions of, federal or state regulators in connection with violations or alleged violations of applicable laws, regulations or standards. We may incur substantial attorney fees and expenses in the process of defending against lawsuits or regulatory actions and our insurance policies may not cover, or cover inadequately, the costs of adverse judgments, civil money penalties, and attorney fees and expenses. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and regulatory capital. We are subject to reputational risk, which is the potential that negative publicity regarding our business practices, whether true or not, could cause a decline in our customer base, stock price, or general reputation in the markets in which we operate. Reputational risk is heightened in the instance of publicity surrounding lawsuits or regulatory actions. Rapidly changing interest rates or prolonged low market interest rates could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, and net income. Interest and fees on loans and investment securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are the principal source of our revenues and thus an important driver of net income. Market interest rates and rate changes influence our net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond our control. As market interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Increasing rates could also lead to decreased demand for loans, deposits, and other products that are priced based on interest rates. For example, rapid increases in interest rates could result in our interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Additionally, extended periods of low market interest rates, such as we have today, may adversely affect our net interest spread and net interest income, because our earning assets yield decreases and stays low during a time that our cost of interest bearing liabilities is already low and cannot be correspondingly reduced further. For more information regarding interest rates, see the discussion under the section “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in the Item 7A of this report. We face liquidity risks in the operation of our business. Liquidity is crucial to the operation of Bancorp and the Bank. Liquidity risk is the potential that Bancorp or the Bank will be unable to fund increases in assets or meet payment obligations, including obligations to the Bank’s depositors, as they become due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets at a reasonable cost. Funding illiquidity may arise at the Bank if we are unable to, at reasonable terms, attract and retain deposits, secure or renew borrowings from the overnight inter-bank market, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (the “FHLB”), or the Federal Reserve discount window, or access other sources of liquidity, as described in more detail under the heading “Liquidity and Sources of Funds” in Item 7 of this report. If we fail to monitor and control our liquidity risks, there may be materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. We face operational risks that may result in unexpected losses. We face various operational risks that arise from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, failures in internal controls, breaches of our security systems, fraud, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, or any number of other unforeseen events could result in unexpected losses. Additionally, third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access, data reporting, and data processing. Any problems caused by third parties could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, with related adverse affects on our revenues, expenses, and earnings. Replacing third party vendors, should that be necessary, may entail significant delay and expense. 13 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Bank relies on its computer information systems in the conduct of its business. The Bank has policies and procedures in place to protect against and reduce the occurrences of failures, interruptions, or breaches of security of these systems, however, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will eliminate the occurrence of failures, interruptions or breaches of security or that they will adequately restore or minimize any such events. The occurrence of a failure, interruption or breach of security of the Bank's computer information systems could result in a loss of information, business or regulatory scrutiny, or other events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is very competitive and any failure to develop, implement, and distribute competitive products to generate profitable revenue sources could affect our net income. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making, and retaining loans and providing other financial services. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions, such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. The challenging real estate market conditions and modest loan demand over the past few years have caused intense pricing pressures for loans to qualified borrowers, which impacts the spreads we obtain on loans. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see the discussion under the heading “Competition” included in Item 1 of this report. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and income from loans and other products may be reduced. Inability to hire or retain key professionals, management, and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including, but not limited to, major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. Market and other constraints on our loan origination volumes may lead to continued pressure on our interest and fee income. Due to the continued weak economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and other factors, we expect continued pressure on new loan origination volumes in the near term, particularly with respect to construction loans, relative to such volumes generated in the pre-recession period. If we are unable to increase loan volumes, there will be continued pressure on our interest income and fees generated from our lending operations. Unless we are able to offset the lower interest income and fees with increased activity in other areas of our operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expenses. We expect that it may be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term. Our products and services are delivered on a technological platform that is subject to rapid change and transformation. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change and we face constant evolution of customer demand for technology-driven financial and banking products and services, including mobile banking applications. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvement and product development, marketing, and implementation. Any failure to successfully keep pace with and fund technological innovation in the markets in which we compete could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our Common Stock trades in relatively limited volumes and a significant percentage continues to be owned by investors in the October 2009 Private Capital Raise, which may result in a share price that is volatile and which may be subject to downward pricing pressure in the event significant shareholders decide to dispose of shares of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “WCBO" and trading volume is modest. The limited trading market for our Common Stock may lead to exaggerated fluctuations in market prices and possible market inefficiencies, as compared to a more actively traded stock. It may also make it more difficult to dispose of our shares at expected prices, especially for holders seeking to dispose of a large number of our shares. In addition, if a large shareholder or group of investors in our Private Capital Raise elects to sell their shares, such sales or attempted sales could result in significant downward pressure on the market price of our Common Stock and actual price declines. Natural disasters could affect our ability to operate. Our market areas are located in earthquake zones and our coastal markets are located in areas that are susceptible to tsunamis. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our market areas and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future earthquakes or tsunamis will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such events could result in an inability to continue business operations or cause a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. 14 The anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized. The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on Columbia’s ability to successfully combine the Columbia and Bancorp organizations. If Columbia is not able to achieve this objective, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer than expected to be realized, and in turn may cause the price of Columbia’s common stock to fall. Columbia and Bancorp have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process or other factors could result in the loss or departure of key employees, the disruption of the ongoing business of Bancorp or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. It is also possible that clients, customers, depositors and counterparties of Bancorp could choose to discontinue their relationships with the combined company pre- or post-Merger because they prefer doing business with an independent company or for any other reason, which would adversely affect the future performance of the combined company. These transition matters could have an adverse effect on Bancorp during the pre-Merger period and on the combined company for an undetermined time after the completion of the Merger. The Merger Agreement limits Bancorp’s ability to pursue an alternative transaction and requires Bancorp to pay a termination fee of $20,000,000 under certain circumstances relating to alternative acquisition proposals. The Merger Agreement prohibits Bancorp from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or knowingly facilitating certain alternative acquisition proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides for the payment by Bancorp to Columbia of a termination fee of $20,000,000 in the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, including, among others, certain changes in the recommendation of Bancorp’s board of directors, a failure of Bancorp’s shareholders to approve the Merger Agreement or the termination of the Merger Agreement in certain circumstances followed by an acquisition of Bancorp by a third party. These provisions may discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring Bancorp from considering or proposing such an acquisition. The Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from governmental entities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on Bancorp or the combined company following the Merger. Before the Merger may be completed, various approvals and consents must be obtained from the Federal Reserve Board, the DFCS and various other securities, antitrust, and other regulatory authorities. These governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of such approvals and consents. Although Columbia and Bancorp do not currently expect that any such material conditions or changes will be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional costs or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on Bancorp or the combined company following the Merger. In addition, each of Columbia and Bancorp has agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to avoid or overcome impediments to completing the Merger, including, among other things, making expenditures and incurring costs, raising capital, divesting or otherwise disposing of businesses or assets, and effecting the dissolution, internal merger or consolidation of subsidiaries or enhancing internal controls. Such actions may entail costs and may adversely affect Bancorp, or the combined company following the Merger. The Merger is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the Merger not being completed, which may cause the price of Bancorp common stock to decline. The Merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and approvals of the Columbia and Bancorp shareholders. If any condition to the Merger is not satisfied or waived, to the extent permitted by law, the Merger will not be completed. In addition, Columbia and Bancorp may terminate the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances even if the Merger Agreement is approved by Bancorp shareholders and the issuance of Columbia common stock in connection with the Merger is approved by Columbia shareholders. If Columbia and Bancorp do not complete the Merger, the trading price of Bancorp common stock may decline to the extent that the current price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. In addition, neither Bancorp nor Columbia would realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the Merger. If the Merger is not completed and Bancorp’s board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, Bancorp shareholders cannot be certain that Bancorp will be able to find a party willing to offer equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration Columbia has agreed to provide in the Merger. If the Merger is not completed, additional risks could materialize, which could materially and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operation of Bancorp. The combined company expects to incur substantial expenses related to the Merger. The combined company expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with completing the Merger and combining the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of the two companies. Although Columbia and Bancorp have assumed that a certain level of transaction and combination expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond their control that could affect the total amount or the timing of expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Due to these factors, the transaction and combination expenses associated with the Merger and integration of the combined operations of Bancorp and Columbia could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the combination of the businesses following the completion of the Merger. As a result of these expenses, both Columbia and Bancorp expect to take charges against their earnings before and after the completion of the Merger. The charges taken in connection with the Merger are expected to be significant, although the aggregate amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 