ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Future loan losses may exceed our allowance for credit losses. We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans in accordance with their terms. We maintain an allowance for credit losses that represents management’s best estimate, as of a particular date, of the probable amount of loan receivables and unfunded commitments that the Bank will be unable to collect. An extended recession or further weakening of the economy or a specific industry sector or a rapid change in interest rates could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay loans. Developments of this nature could result in losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses. In addition, to the extent that loan payments from borrowers are not timely, the loans will be placed on nonaccrual status, thereby lowering earning assets balances and reducing future interest income, and, in certain circumstances, requiring reversal of previously accrued interest income. If we determine that it is appropriate to increase the allowance for credit losses to address changing conditions, we will do so through additional provision for credit losses. Any additional provision for credit losses to increase the allowance for credit losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the Company’s allowance for credit losses, see the discussion under the subheading “Allowance for Credit Losses” and “Critical Accounting Policies” included in Item 7 of this report. We continue to hold and acquire a significant amount of other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties, which has led to increased operating expenses and vulnerability to additional declines in real property values. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. During 2009, we continued to acquire a significant amount of OREO. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had 672 OREO properties with an aggregate book value of $53.6 million. Large OREO balances have led to significantly increased expenses as we have incurred costs to manage and dispose of these properties and, in certain cases, complete construction of structures prior to sale. We expect that our earnings in 2010 will continue to be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments, and other expenses associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Any further decrease in market prices of real estate in our market areas may lead to additional OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. The expenses associated with OREO and any further property write downs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We currently have $99.3 million in nonaccrual loans, which may lead to further increase in our OREO balance in the future. Impairment of investment securities or deferred tax assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Our assessment of the impairment of investment securities factors in several uncertain and qualitative factors, including, without limitation, the length of time and extent to which the fair value of a particular security has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to retain a particular investment long enough to recover value in the future. Assessment of impairment of intangible assets could result in charges to earnings in the period during which impairment is identified. Our assessment of our ability to realize deferred tax assets factors in several uncertain and qualitative factors, including, without limitation, whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and the likelihood of generation of future taxable income. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may seek to raise additional capital in the future to enhance capital levels, improve capital ratios, provide capital for acquisitions, or increase liquidity available for operations and other opportunities. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our Common Stock or Preferred Stock. In the event we desire to raise additional capital, any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company. In the case of equity financings, the issuance of additional common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, or other convertible securities or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our Common Stock and securities issued in such financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our current shareholders. Any debt financing may include covenants that restrict our operations and interest charges that detract from future earnings. In the event additional capital is unavailable on acceptable terms through available financing sources, we may instead take steps to preserve capital, such as reduced lending activity, and we may not be able to take advantage of opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. 11 We may not pay any cash dividends on our Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our activities are conducted through the Bank, and Bancorp receives substantially all of its funds through dividends from the Bank. Pursuant to the Consent Order, the Bank is prohibited from paying cash dividends without the prior consent of the FDIC and the DFCS. Pursuant to the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve, Bancorp is prohibited from paying dividends without the prior consent of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Reserve Director, and the DFCS. We do not know when the Bank will receive regulatory approval to pay dividends to Bancorp in the future or when we will receive regulatory approval to accept any such dividends. If we obtain regulatory approval to pay dividends, we may not pay any cash dividends on our Common Stock until we are current on interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures associated with our pooled trust preferred securities. The sale or perceived threat of sale of the 89.5 million shares of Common Stock that we recently registered for re-sale by investors in our October 2009 private capital raise may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. The market value of our Common Stock may be adversely affected by sales of a large number of shares of Common Stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Of the 89.5 million shares of Common Stock that were originally registered for resale by investors in the October 2009 private capital raise, 71.4 million shares are issued and outstanding, and 18.1 million shares are issuable upon conversion of Preferred Stock that is presently outstanding or issuable upon exercise of certain Warrants issued in the private placement transactions. For more information regarding Bancorp’s private capital raise, see the discussion under the subheading “Private Capital Raise” in the “Overview” section included in Item 7 of this report. Our Common Stock is equity and is subordinate to our indebtedness and Preferred Stock. Shares of our Common Stock are equity interests in the Company and do not constitute indebtedness. Shares of our Common Stock will rank junior to all indebtedness, including junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with our trust preferred securities, and other non-equity claims on the Company with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on the Company, including in a liquidation of the Company. In the event of a liquidation, holders of our Common Stock are subject to the prior liquidation rights of any holders of our Preferred Stock then outstanding. For more information regarding the securities that remain outstanding following Bancorp’s private capital raise, see the discussion under the subheading “Private Capital Raise” in the section “Overview” included in Item 7 of this report. Rapidly changing interest rates could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and investment securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are a key driver of our net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond our control. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. It could also lead to decreased demand for loans and other products that are priced based on interest rates. Rapid increases in interest rates could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Rapid decreases in interest rates could result in interest income decreasing faster than interest expense, for example, if management is unable to match decreases in earning assets yields, with reduced rates paid on deposits or borrowings. Periods of low market interest rates, such as we have today, adversely affect our net interest spread and net interest income because our earning assets yield decreases and stays low during a time that our cost of interest bearing liabilities is already low and cannot be correspondingly reduced further. For more information regarding interest rates, see the discussion under the section “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in the Item 7A of this report. We face liquidity risks in the operation of our business. Liquidity is crucial to the operation of Bancorp and the Bank. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to fund increases in assets or meet payment obligations, including obligations to depositors, as they become due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets. Bancorp is dependent upon cash dividends from the Bank for most of its liquidity, and the Bank is currently unable to pay dividends without regulatory consent. Funding illiquidity may arise at the Bank if we are unable to attract core deposits or renew at acceptable pricing long or short-term borrowings from the overnight inter-bank market, the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”), or the Federal Reserve discount window. Changes or disruptions to the FHLB System could adversely impact our ability to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements. Illiquidity may also arise if our regulatory capital levels decrease, our lenders require additional collateral to secure our repayment obligations, or a large amount of our deposits are withdrawn. The expiration of the TAG program in June 30, 2010, may lead to lower deposit volume from withdrawal of demand deposits in excess of $250,000, especially if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to participate in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (“CDARS”) network, which increases insured deposit balances by allocating deposits among participating institutions. For more information regarding the CDARS program, see the discussion under the heading “Deposits and Borrowings” and “Liquidity and Sources of Funds” in Item 7 of this report. We are currently prohibited from accepting new CDARS deposits, which are classified by regulators as brokered deposits, without prior regulatory approval under the terms of the Consent Order. If we fail to monitor and control our liquidity risks, there may be materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Our business may be harmed by adverse events at other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent banking, counterparty, and other relationships and because of regulatory factors, including the operation of the deposit insurance fund. Bancorp enters into transactions with financial services companies, including commercial banks and correspondent banks. Many of these transactions expose Bancorp and the Bank to credit and bankruptcy risk in the event of a default or bankruptcy by a counter party. The Bank may also be negatively impacted by the failure of other banks. For example, as a depository of public funds, the Bank will be assessed, and the Bank is statutorily obligated to pay, a pro rata share of the losses of public funds held at a failed public depository in Oregon and Washington. In addition, assessments the Bank pays to the FDIC and others, including deposit insurance premiums, increase based on the costs being borne by the FDIC’s bank insurance fund. The Bank’s insurance and special assessment costs can be expected to increase in the event of additional bank failures or other adverse events affecting the banking system generally or the Bank in particular. The financial services industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans and providing other financial services. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions, such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see the discussion under the heading “Competition” included in Item 1 of this report. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share, and income from loans and other products may be reduced. We are currently in a particularly competitive market for low cost deposits, partly driven by certain competitors being required to boost their deposit funding balances, which has led to increased pressure on our deposit balances and net interest margin. The Congressional and regulatory response to the current economic and credit crisis could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state legislators and regulators are pursuing increased regulation of how banks are operated and how loans are originated, purchased, and sold as a result of the current economic and credit crisis. Changes in the banking industry, lending markets and secondary markets for loans and related congressional and regulatory responses may impact how the Bank conducts business, earns fee income, makes and underwrites loans, and buys and sells loans in secondary markets. We are unable to predict whether any legislative or regulatory initiatives or actions will be implemented or what form they will take. Any such actions could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding regulatory enforcement actions involving Bancorp and the Bank and the regulatory environment in which we operate, see the discussion under the subheading “Current Enforcement Actions” and generally under the section “Supervision and Regulation” included in Item 1 of this report. Significant legal and regulatory actions could subject us to uninsured liabilities, associated reputational risk, and reduced revenues. From time to time, we are sued for damages or threatened with lawsuits relating to various aspects of our operations. We may also be subject to investigations and possibly substantial civil money penalties assessed by, or other actions of, federal or state regulators in connection with violations or alleged violations of applicable laws, regulations or standards. We may incur substantial attorney fees and expenses in the process of defending against lawsuits or regulatory actions and our insurance policies may not cover, or cover adequately, the costs of adverse judgments, civil money penalties, and attorney fees and expenses. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital, and financial condition. We are subject to reputational risk, which is the potential that negative publicity regarding our business practices, whether true or not, could cause a decline in our customer base, stock price, or general reputation in the markets in which we operate. Reputational risk is heightened in the instance of publicity surrounding lawsuits or regulatory actions. We are presently subject to regulatory agreements with the primary regulators for Bancorp and the Bank. These agreements restrict our activities. They also may negatively affect our reputation. We may be subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances will be found on these properties, in which case we may be liable for remediation costs and related personal injury and property damage. Compliance with environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. Environmental indemnifications obtained from borrowers and their principals or affiliates may not adequately compensate the Bank for losses related to environmental conditions. 13 Market and other constraints on our loan origination volumes may lead to continued pressure on our interest and fee income. Due to the poor economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and other factors, we expect continued pressure on new loan originations in the near term, particularly with respect to construction loans. If we are unable to increase loan volumes, there will be continued pressure on our interest income and fees generated from our lending operations. Unless we are able to offset the lower interest income and fees with increased activity in other areas of our operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expenses. We expect that it may be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term. Inability to hire or retain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including, but not limited to, major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. The recession negatively impacts payment systems, trust and investment revenues. Reduced transaction volume and lower average transaction amounts associated with reduced economic activity and the recessionary environment may result in declining fees from credit and debit cards, merchant relationships, and other business lines. Additionally, a weak economy may adversely affect the equity markets, which in turn, would reduce our trust and investment sales revenues. Decreased loan sales volumes and lower gains on sales of mortgage and SBA loans, and loan repurchase obligations, could adversely affect our net income. We originate and sell mortgage loans and the guaranteed portion of SBA loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of the loans. The Consent Order also affects our preferred status as an SBA lender and may result in a suspension of our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans to our correspondent lenders. These limitations consequently reduce our ability to originate and sell SBA and mortgage loans for a gain resulting in lower income from gains on sales of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold may reduce associated revenues and net income. In addition, in the event of one or more breaches of warranties and representations made by us in connection with loan sales, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase loans sold to correspondent lenders in the secondary market. Any reductions in revenues associated with loan sales or repurchases of loans previously sold may adversely affect the results of our lending operations. Our products and services are delivered on a technological platform that is subject to rapid change and transformation. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change and we face constant evolution of customer demand for technology-driven financial and banking products and services. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvement and product development, marketing, and implementation. Any failure to successfully keep pace with and fund technological innovation in the markets in which we compete could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. We face operational risks that may result in unexpected losses. We face various operational risks that arise from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, failures in internal controls, breaches of our security systems, fraud, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, or any number of unforeseen catastrophes could result in unexpected losses. Additionally, third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access, data reporting, and data processing. Any problems caused by third parties could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and our revenues, expenses, and earnings. Replacing third party vendors, should that be necessary, may entail significant delay and expense. We rely on the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (the “Seattle FHLB”) as a source of liquidity, and it may be experiencing liquidity problems of its own. The Company is highly dependent on the Seattle FHLB as a source of liquidity and to meet its borrowing needs. Changes or disruptions to the Seattle FHLB or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity requirements, including short and long term borrowing needs. Recently, the Seattle FHLB announced that it met all minimum regulatory capital requirements as of September 30, 2009. However, the Federal Housing Finance Agency exercised its discretionary authority to reaffirm Seattle FHLB’s “undercapitalized” classification. As a result, the Seattle FHLB cannot pay dividends on its common stock and cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance the FHLB will have sufficient resources to continue to fund our borrowings at their current levels or the amounts available to us, which could have an adverse effect on the Bank's liquidity. It is also possible that the Seattle FHLB will require its members, including the Company, to contribute additional capital to the Seattle FHLB. At December 31, 2009, we had stock in the Seattle FHLB totaling $12.1 million. As of December 31, 2009, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our stock holdings in the Seattle FHLB despite its reported financial difficulties. There can be no assurance, however, that future negative changes to the financial condition of the Seattle FHLB may not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to these holdings. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 