ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Future loan losses may exceed our allowance for credit losses. We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans in accordance with their terms. We maintain an allowance for credit losses that represents management’s best estimate, as of a particular date, of the probable amount of loan receivables and unfunded commitments that the Bank will be unable to collect. An extended recession or further weakening of the economy or a specific industry sector or a rapid change in interest rates could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay loans. Developments of this nature could result in losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses. In addition, to the extent that loan payments from borrowers are not timely, the loans will be placed on nonaccrual status, thereby lowering earning assets balances and reducing future interest income, and, in certain circumstanc es, requiring reversal of previously accrued interest income. If we determine that it is appropriate to increase the allowance for credit losses to address changing conditions, we will do so through additional provision for credit losses. Any additional provision for credit losses to increase the allowance for credit losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the Company’s allowance for credit losses, see the discussion under the subheading “Allowance for Credit Losses” and “Critical Accounting Policies” included in Item 7 of this report. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to continued deterioration in the real estate market in our market areas. Approximately 79% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As a result, we are vulnerable to declines in the real estate markets in which we operate. We have experienced declining real estate values over the last three years and have experienced high levels of net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which have only recently begun to decline. If we experience increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or renewed declines in real estate market values, we would expect increased loan charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Because of our significant concentration in loans secured by real estate, we are particularly vulnerable to such effects. The recession has been particularly severe in the market areas we serve and our results of operations will continue to be adversely affected if the local economies do not improve or if the recession worsens. Substantially all of our loans and loan opportunities are to businesses and individuals in our markets in Washington and Oregon. As evidenced by the unemployment rate in Oregon, which has hovered at or above 10% since January 2009, and was at 10.6% in December 2010, our region has been severely impacted by the same challenges facing the economy nationally and perhaps more so. The region has also experienced severe declines in residential and commercial real estate values. If we experience further deterioration in the economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our market areas, we could face the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: the value of assets that serve as collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline further in value; loan delinquencies could increase; prob lem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; and access to low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease. Financial services legislation and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our businesses and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010, and many of its provisions have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities as well as require multiple studies to be conducted over the next one to two years. The Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a number of adverse impacts on us. The levels of capital and liquidity with which we and the Bank must operate may be increased, resulting in decreased leverage and reduced earnings. We may also be subjected to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC. Revenue on interchange fees may decrease as a result of the level of fees the Federal Reserve deems 220;reasonable and proportional” when it finalizes its proposed regulation standards on the amount of interchange fees that can be charged to merchants for electronic debit card transactions. The Company may also be subject to additional regulations under the newly established Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection which has been given broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations. These and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, impose additional costs on us, result in significant loss of revenue, impact the value of assets we hold, or otherwise significantly adversely affect our businesses. 11 The Bank derives overdraft fee income from its customer’s participation in the Bank’s overdraft service program. Recent amendments to Regulation E and the FDIC’s new Overdraft Guidance may impact our customer’s participation in the program and our overdraft fee income may be negatively affected. Under recent amendments to Regulation E, customer’s that desire to participate in the Bank’s overdraft service program for ATM and one-time-debit card transactions must affirmatively opt-in because the Bank imposes service fees on such transactions. Although the majority of our customers have elected to opt-in, we are not able to predict future customer behavior or determine whether new customers will elect to opt-in. The FDIC issued guidance on overdraft payment programs in November 2010, which becomes effective July 2011. The guidance requires banks to, among other things, establish an outreach program to customers who excessively overdraw their account and advise them of lower cost alternatives, institute appropriate daily limits on customer costs and consider eliminating overdraft fees for transactions that overdraw an account by a de minimus amount. If customers do not elect to participate or re main in our overdraft protection program, an important source of noninterest income will be negatively affected. The Congressional and regulatory response to the current economic and credit crisis could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state legislators and regulators are pursuing increased regulation of how loans are originated, purchased, and sold, and properties are foreclosed, as a result of the current economic and credit crisis. Changes in the banking industry, lending markets and secondary markets for loans and related congressional and regulatory responses may impact how the Bank conducts business, makes and underwrites loans, and buys and sells loans in secondary markets. Loan sales are subject to proper compliance with standard underwriting rules that if not met, may allow the secondary market buyer to require the Company to repurchase the note. We are unable to predict whether any legislative or regulatory initiatives or actions will be implemented or what form they will take. Any such actions could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a n adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see the discussion under the subheading “Supervision and Regulation” included in Item 1 of this report. Significant legal and regulatory actions could subject us to uninsured liabilities, associated reputational risk, and reduced revenues. From time to time, we are sued for damages or threatened with lawsuits relating to various aspects of our operations. We may also be subject to investigations and possibly substantial civil money penalties assessed by, or other actions of, federal or state regulators in connection with violations or alleged violations of applicable laws, regulations or standards. We may incur substantial attorney fees and expenses in the process of defending against lawsuits or regulatory actions and our insurance policies may not cover, or cover adequately, the costs of adverse judgments, civil money penalties, and attorney fees and expenses. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital, and financial condition. We are subject to reputational risk, which is the potential that negative publicity regarding our business practices, whether true or not, could cause a decline in our customer base, stock price, or general reputation in the markets in which we operate. Reputational risk is heightened in the instance of publicity surrounding lawsuits or regulatory actions. We are presently subject to regulatory agreements with the primary regulators for Bancorp and the Bank. These agreements restrict our activities. They also may negatively affect our reputation. Impairment of investment securities, including Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (the “FHLB”) stock, could negatively impact our results of operations. Our investment securities portfolio currently includes securities with unrecognized losses, including our securities in FHLB. We own common stock of the FHLB with a carrying value of $12.1 million. Ownership of FHLB common stock is a requirement to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds from the FHLB. Our assessment of the impairment of investment securities, including our investment in FHLB common stock, factors in several uncertain and qualitative factors, including, without limitation, the length of time and extent to which the fair value of a particular security has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to retain a particular investment long enough to recover value in the future. We evaluate the securities portfolio for other-than-temporary i mpairment each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. As of December 31, 2010, we did not recognize any securities as other-than-temporarily impaired. There can be no assurance, however, that future evaluations of the securities portfolio will not lead us to the conclusion that we must recognize an impairment charge with respect to these and other holdings. The FHLB is under regulatory restrictions on its operations due primarily to credit related charges recorded on private-label mortgage-backed securities and is currently prohibited by its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Authority, from repurchasing or redeeming capital stock or paying dividends to members. Consequently, for this and other reasons, there is a risk that our investment in common stock of the FHLB could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 We may seek to raise additional capital in the future to enhance capital levels, improve capital ratios, provide capital for acquisitions, or increase liquidity available for operations and other opportunities. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our Common Stock or Preferred Stock. While we have no plans to do so at this time, in the event we desire to raise additional capital, any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company. In the case of equity financings, the issuance of additional common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, or other convertible securities or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our Common Stock and securities issued in such financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our current shareholders. Any debt financing may include covenants that restrict our operations and interest charges that detract from future earnings. Bancorp is restricted from paying cash dividends on its Common Stock, and these restrictions may continue for a significant period of time. Pursuant to the Written Agreement with the Reserve Bank and the DFCS, Bancorp is prohibited from paying dividends without prior consent of the Reserve Bank, the Federal Reserve Director and the DFCS, or extending credit or otherwise supplying funds to, or engaging in certain transactions with the Bank. Additionally, even if Bancorp obtains regulatory approval to pay dividends, we may not pay any cash dividends on our Common Stock until we are current on interest payments on our junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with our trust preferred securities. For these and other reasons, Bancorp may not resume paying cash dividends on its Common Stock for some time into the future, if at all. Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Substantially all of Bancorp’s funds and revenue is received as dividends paid from the Bank, which is currently restricted from paying dividends. The Bank may not pay dividends to Bancorp in the near future. Substantially all of Bancorp’s funds and revenue is received as dividends paid from the Bank. Pursuant to the MOU the Bank is prohibited from paying dividends to Bancorp without the consent of the FDIC and the DFCS. We do not know when the FDIC and DFCS would consent to a request from the Bank to pay dividends to Bancorp. In the event the Bank continues to be unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, Bancorp may not be able to service debt or pay other obligations. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s business, financial condition, including liquidity, and results of operations. Additionally, we have elected to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on our junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with our trust preferred securities and may be deemed to be in default if pa yment is not made prior to the end of the deferral period. During the third quarter of 2009, we began deferring regularly scheduled interest payments of its junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with our trust preferred securities. Under the terms of the junior subordinated debentures and the trust documents, we have the contractual right to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods without default. During the deferral period, the respective trusts will likewise suspend the declaration and payment of dividends on the trust preferred securities. If the Company fails to bring the deferred payments current prior to the end of the deferral period, then we may be deemed to be in default under the terms of the notes and subject to various penalties. Rapidly changing interest rates could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and investment securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are a key driver of our net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond our control. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. It could also lead to decreased demand for loans and other products that are priced based on interest rates. Rapid increases in interest rates could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Rapid decreases in interest rates could result in interest income decreasing faster than interest expense, for example, if management is unable to match decreases in earning assets yields, with reduced rates paid on deposits or borrowings. Periods of low market interest rates, such a s we have today, may adversely affect our net interest spread and net interest income because our earning assets yield decreases and stays low during a time that our cost of interest bearing liabilities is already low and cannot be correspondingly reduced further. For more information regarding interest rates, see the discussion under the section “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in the Item 7A of this report. We face liquidity risks in the operation of our business. Liquidity is crucial to the operation of Bancorp and the Bank. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to fund increases in assets or meet payment obligations, including obligations to depositors, as they become due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets at a reasonable cost. Funding illiquidity may arise at the Bank if we are unable to, at reasonable terms, attract and retain deposits, secure or renew borrowings from the overnight inter-bank market, the FHLB, or the Federal Reserve discount window, or access other sources of liquidity, as described in more detail under the heading “Liquidity and Sources of Funds” in Item 7 of this report. Changes or disruptions to the FHLB system could adversely impact our ability to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements. If we fail t o monitor and control our liquidity risks, there may be materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 We face operational risks that may result in unexpected losses. We face various operational risks that arise from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, failures in internal controls, breaches of our security systems, fraud, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, or any number of unforeseen catastrophes could result in unexpected losses. Additionally, third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access, data reporting, and data processing. Any problems caused by third parties could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and our revenues, expenses, and earnings. Replacing third party vendors, should that be necessary, may entail significant delay and expense. The financial services industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans and providing other financial services. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions, such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see the discussion under the heading “Competition” included in Item 1 of this report. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share, and income from loans and other products may be reduced. Inability to hire or retain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including, but not limited to, major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. Market and other constraints on our loan origination volumes may lead to continued pressure on our interest and fee income. Due to the poor economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and other factors, we expect continued pressure on new loan originations in the near term, particularly with respect to construction loans. If we are unable to increase loan volumes, there will be continued pressure on our interest income and fees generated from our lending operations. Unless we are able to offset the lower interest income and fees with increased activity in other areas of our operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expenses. We expect that it may be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term. Our products and services are delivered on a technological platform that is subject to rapid change and transformation. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change and we face constant evolution of customer demand for technology-driven financial and banking products and services. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvement and product development, marketing, and implementation. Any failure to successfully keep pace with and fund technological innovation in the markets in which we compete could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operation. Our Common Stock trades in relatively limited volumes and a significant percentage continues to be owned by investors in the October 2009 private capital raise, resulting in a share price that is volatile and which may be subject to downward pricing pressure in the event significant shareholders decide to dispose of shares of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “WCBO" and trading volume is modest. The limited trading market for our Common Stock may lead to exaggerated fluctuations in market prices and possible market inefficiencies, as compared to a more actively traded stock. It may also make it more difficult to dispose of our shares at expected prices, especially for holders seeking to dispose of a large number of our shares. In addition, if a large shareholder or group of investors in our private capital raise elects to sell their shares, such sales or attempted sales could result in significant downward pressure on the market price of our Common Stock and actual price declines. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 