ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Future loan losses may exceed our allowance for loan losses. We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans in accordance with their terms. An extended recession or further weakening of the economy or a specific industry sector or a rapid change in interest rates could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay loans. A sustained weakness in the relevant real estate markets could further adversely affect the value of the collateral for many of our loans. Developments of this nature could result in losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses. In addition, to the extent that loan payments from borrowers are not timely, the loans will be placed on nonaccrual status, thereby lowering earning assets balances, reducing future interest income, and, in certain circumstances requiring reversal of previously accrued interest income. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate, as of a particular date, of the probable amount of loan receivables that the Bank will be unable to collect. When available information confirms that specific loans or portions of loans are uncollectible, those amounts are charged off against the allowance for loan losses. Our management establishes the allowance for loan losses based on a continual evaluation of lending concentrations, specific credit risks, past loan loss experience, loan portfolio and collateral quality, and relevant economic, political, and regulatory conditions. Adverse changes in any of these or other factors that management considers relevant may result in an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, federal and state banking regulators periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require that the Bank increase the allowance or recognize loan charge-offs. Any additional provision for loan losses to increase the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For more information on this topic, see “Critical Accounting Policies” and “Allowance for Credit Losses and Net Loan Charge-offs” in Item 7 of this report below. Bancorp may need to raise additional capital in the future to enhance or maintain desired levels of capital, improve capital ratios, or increase liquidity available for operations. In the event Bancorp desires to raise additional capital, any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company. In the case of equity financings, dilution to Bancorp’s shareholders could result and securities issued in such financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of Bancorp’s current shareholders. Under Bancorp’s articles of incorporation, it may issue preferred equity without first obtaining shareholder approval. Debt financing may include covenants that restrict Bancorp’s operations and interest charges would detract from future earnings. In the event additional capital is unavailable on acceptable terms through available financing sources, we may instead take additional steps to preserve capital, including further slowing of lending activities and new loan commitments, selling certain assets, increasing loan participations or eliminating our cash dividend to shareholders. During the third quarter of 2008, we reduced our cash dividend to $.01 per share as part of our efforts to preserve capital. Home values may continue to decrease leading to additional and greater than anticipated loan charge-offs and valuation write downs on our other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for many of our loans as part of our business. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. During 2008, we acquired a significant amount of OREO relating to loans originated in the two-step loan portfolio (“two-step loans”) and, to a lesser extent, other loan portfolios. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties and, in certain cases, complete construction of structures prior to sale. We expect that our earnings in 2009 will be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in OREO. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. Further property write downs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We currently have $127.6 million in nonaccrual loans and $70.1 million of OREO properties. 9 Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and investment securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are key drivers of our net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities. Rapid decreases in interest rates could result in interest income decreasing faster than interest expense, for example, if management is unable to match decreases in earning assets yields, with reduced rates paid on deposits or borrowings. Periods of low market interest rates, such as we have today, has adversely impacted our net interest spread and net interest income because our earning assets yield decreases during a time that our cost of interest bearing liabilities is already low and cannot be correspondingly reduced further. For more information on this topic, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A of this report below. We face liquidity risks in the operation of our business. Liquidity is crucial to the operation of Bancorp and the Bank. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to fund increases in assets or meet payment obligations, including obligations to depositors, as they become due because of an inability to obtain adequate funding or liquidate assets. For example, funding illiquidity may arise if we are unable to attract core deposits or are unable to renew at acceptable pricing long-term borrowings or short-term borrowings from the overnight inter-bank market, the Federal Home Loan Bank System, brokered deposits, or the Federal Reserve discount window. Illiquidity may also arise if our regulatory capital levels decrease, our lenders require additional collateral to secure our repayment obligations, or a large amount of our deposits are withdrawn. We may also experience illiquidity due to unexpected cash outflows on committed lines of credit or financial guarantees or due to unexpected events. The increasingly competitive retail deposit environment increases liquidity risk (and increases our cost of funds) as increasingly sophisticated depositors move funds more frequently in search of higher rates or better opportunities. Bancorp’s liquidity may be negatively impacted by regulatory or statutory restrictions on payment of cash dividends by the Bank. We monitor our liquidity risk, including, without limitation, through contingency planning stress testing. We also seek to avoid over concentration of funding sources and to establish and maintain back-up funding facilities that we can draw down if normal funding sources become unavailable. If we fail to control our liquidity risks, there may be materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the real estate mortgage market may continue to impact our operations. In late 2007, lenders and other participants in the real estate mortgage market began to experience higher than anticipated levels of borrower defaults and lender foreclosures, which in turn caused significant adverse economic consequences to many participants in the real estate lending market, including loan originators, loan servicers, and participants in the secondary loan markets. These consequences spread to other markets, including, most significantly, the general credit markets and real estate markets, and the economy as a whole. We have experienced a high rate of default in connection with our two-step loan portfolio and increasing rates of default in other areas that are due, in part, to the disruptions in the lending and real estate markets and the weak economy in general. We expect to experience further defaults and the rate of defaults may worsen if the credit and real estate markets do not stabilize and eventually begin to improve or if economic conditions do not improve. The Congressional and regulatory response to the current economic and credit crisis could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state legislators and regulators are expected to pursue increased regulation of how banks are operated and how loans are originated, purchased, and sold as a result of the current economic and credit crisis. Changes in the lending market and secondary markets for loans and related congressional and regulatory responses may impact how the Bank makes and underwrites loans, buys and sells such loans in secondary markets, and otherwise conducts its business. We are unable to predict whether any legislative or regulatory initiatives or actions will be implemented, what form they will take, whether they will be directed at the Bank, or whether such initiatives or actions, once they are initiated or taken, will thereafter continue to change. Any such actions could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this report above. The administration of President Barack Obama recently announced a comprehensive mortgage-relief plan. The effects of this plan and any other similar programs or inititatives that may be implemented are difficult to predict, but they could result in increased losses to the Bank, either directly or indirectly through the Bank's ownership of investment securities, including mortgage-backed securities. 10 Our business may be harmed by adverse events at other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent banking, counterparty, and other relationships and because of regulatory factors. Bancorp enters into transactions with financial services companies, including commercial banks and correspondent banks. Many of these transactions expose Bancorp and the Bank to credit and bankruptcy risk in the event of a default or bankruptcy by a counter party. The Bank may also be negatively impacted by the failure of other banks. For example, as a depository of public funds, the Bank will be assessed, and the Bank is statutorily obligated to pay, a pro rata share of the losses of public funds held at a failed public depository in Oregon and Washington. In addition, assessments the Bank pays to the FDIC and others, including deposit insurance premiums, will increase even further in the event of bank failures or other adverse events affecting the banking system generally or the Bank in particular. Significant legal and regulatory actions could subject us to uninsured liabilities, associated reputational risk, and reduced revenues. From time to time, we are sued for damages or threatened with lawsuits relating to various aspects of our operations. We may also be subject to investigations and possibly substantial civil money penalties assessed by, or other actions of, federal or state regulators in connection with violations or alleged violations of applicable laws, regulations or standards. We may incur substantial attorney fees and expenses in the process of defending against lawsuits or regulatory actions and our insurance policies may not cover, or cover adequately, the costs of adverse judgments, civil money penalties, and attorney fees and expenses. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital, and financial condition. We are subject to reputational risk, which is the potential that negative publicity regarding our business practices, whether true or not, could cause a decline in our customer base, stock price, or general reputation in the markets in which we operate. Reputational risk is heightened in the instance of publicity surrounding lawsuits or regulatory actions. We may be subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances will be found on these properties, in which case we may be liable for remediation costs and related personal injury and property damage. Compliance with environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. Environmental indemnifications obtained from borrowers and their principals or affiliates may not adequately compensate the Bank for losses related to environmental conditions. Slower than anticipated growth and/or revenues from new branches and product and service offerings could result in reduced net income. We have placed a strategic emphasis on expanding our branch network and product offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks that costs will increase without compensating increases in revenues. If we experience lower than expected loan and deposit growth at new branches and lower than expected demand for new product offerings, we may not realize anticipated increases in revenues and net income. Opening new branches and introducing new products may result in more expenses than anticipated and divert financial and personnel resources from current core operations. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales of mortgage and SBA loans, and loan repurchase obligations, could adversely affect our net income. We originate and sell mortgage loans and the guaranteed portion of SBA loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of the loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold may reduce associated revenues and net income. In the event of certain breaches of warranties and representations made by us in connection with loan sales, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase loans sold to correspondent lenders in the secondary market. Any repurchases would alter our financial assumptions which were based on recognizing the revenue associated with the original sale of the loans, and could adversely affect the results of our lending operations. A weakening economy could negatively impact payment systems, trust and investment revenues. Reduced transaction volume and lower average transaction amounts associated with reduced economic activity and the recessionary environment may result in declining fees from credit and debit cards, merchant relationships, and other business lines. Additionally, a weak economy may adversely affect the equity markets, which in turn, would reduce our trust and investment sales revenues. Inability to hire or retain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including, but not limited to, major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. 11 We face operational risks that may result in unexpected losses. We face various operational risks that arise from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, failures in internal controls, breaches of our security systems, fraud, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, or any number of unforeseen catastrophes could result in unexpected losses. Additionally, third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access, data reporting, and data processing. Any problems caused by third parties could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and our revenues, expenses, and earnings. Replacing third party vendors, should that be necessary, may entail significant delay and expense. The financial services industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans and providing other financial services. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, including institutions that have only recently become bank holding companies in connection with their acceptance of TARP investments, and a wide range of other financial institutions, such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see “Competition” in Item 1 of this report above. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share, and income from loans and other products may be reduced. We are currently in a particularly competitive market for low cost deposits, which has led to increased pressure on our deposit balances and net interest margin. This competition for deposits is likely to increase given the large new entrants in the deposit market, such as GMAC, American Express and Morgan Stanley, and traditional banks’ desire to maintain and increase deposits. These new entrants in the deposit market have much greater resources than we do and a history of competing aggressively in consumer and business markets. The Company’s market value could result in an impairment of goodwill. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis at April 30, or when circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. Recently, the Company’s common stock has been trading at a price significantly below its book value. The Company evaluated its goodwill as of December 31, 2008, due to a decrease in the Company’s market capitalization, and concluded that there was no impairment. If impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our goodwill resulting in a charge to earnings. For more information regarding Bancorp’s goodwill, see Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Company’s audited financial statements included under “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Item 8 of this report. Market and other constraints on our construction loan origination volumes are expected to lead to decreases in our interest and fee income that are not expected to be offset by reductions in our noninterest expenses. Due to existing conditions in housing markets in the areas in which we operate and other factors, we project that our construction loan originations will be materially constrained throughout 2009. This will reduce interest income and fees generated from this part of our business. Unless this revenue decline is offset by other areas of our operations, our total revenues may decline relative to our total noninterest expenses. We expect that it will be difficult to find new revenue sources in the near term to offset expected declines in our interest income. We have implemented plans to trim our noninterest expenses in light of the unfavorable environment, but we do not expect these expense reductions to completely offset revenue declines, at least in the near term. The value of certain securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in the market for these securities. In addition to interest rate risk typically associated with an investment portfolio, the market for certain investment securities held within our investment portfolio has over the past year become much less liquid. This coupled with uncertainly surrounding the credit risk associated with the underlying collateral has caused material discrepancies in valuation estimates obtained from third parties. We value some of our investments using internally developed cash flow and valuation models, which include certain subjective estimates which we believe, are reflective of the estimates a purchaser of such securities would use if such a transaction were to occur. The volatile market may affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks, in addition to interest rate risk typically associated with these securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income, equity, and capital ratios. 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 