ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Future loan losses may exceed our allowance for loan losses. We are subject to credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans in accordance with their terms. A downturn in the economy or a specific industry sector or a rapid change in interest rates could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay loans. A downturn in the relevant real estate markets could adversely affect the value of the collateral for many of our loans. Developments of this nature could result in losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses. In addition, to the extent that loan payments from borrowers are not timely, the loans will be placed on nonaccrual status, thereby reducing and/or reversing previously accrued interest income. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate, as of a particular date, of the probable amount of loan receivables that the Bank will be unable to collect. When available information confirms that specific loans or portions of loans are uncollectible, those amounts are charged off against the allowance for loan losses. Our management establishes the allowance for loan losses based on a continual evaluation of lending concentrations, specific credit risks, past loan loss experience, loan portfolio and collateral quality, and relevant economic, political, and regulatory conditions. Adverse changes in any of these or other factors that management considers relevant may result in an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, federal and state banking regulators periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require that the Bank increase the allowance or recognize loan charge-offs. Any additional provision for loan losses to increase the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For more information on this topic, see “Critical Accounting Policies” and “Allowance for Credit Losses and Net Loan Charge-offs” under Item 7 of this report below. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are key drivers of our net interest margin and are subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities and rapid decreases in interest rates could result in interest income decreasing faster than interest expense, for example, when management is unable to match decreases in market interest rates, lowering earning assets yield, with reduced rates paid on deposits or borrowings. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth particularly in construction lending, an important factor in Bancorp’s revenue growth over the past two years. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. For more information on this topic see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Defaults and related losses in our two-step residential construction loan portfolio (“two-step loan portfolio”) could be greater than currently anticipated and are expected to result in a significant increase in other real estate owned (“OREO”) balances and number of properties to be disposed. In January 2008, we announced a provision for credit losses in the amount of $27.8 million, pre-tax, for expected losses associated with our two-step loan portfolio. For additional information, see “Provision for Credit Losses” and “Two-Step Loan Portfolio” under Item 7 of this report below. Actual losses related to loans in the two-step loan portfolio (“two-step loans”) may be greater then anticipated, resulting in additional provision for credit losses in future periods. Construction lending has been an important source of revenue and profitability for the Bank, but it is riskier than other forms of lending due in part to risks inherent in construction, including the possibility of delays and cost overruns, and the additional risks that may arise out of the extended time period between a loan commitment and the project’s eligibility for permanent financing, which may, among other things, allow for significant changes in the financial position of borrowers or changes in market conditions. As part of our collection process for all nonperforming loans, including nonperforming two-step loans, we may foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for the loan. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties and, in certain cases, complete construction of residences prior to sale. Any decrease in sale prices on homes may lead to OREO write-downs with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We expect that our earnings over the next several quarters will be negatively affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, and other costs associated with property ownership, as well as by the funding costs associated with assets that are tied up in real estate properties during the period they are held in OREO. 9 We may be subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances will be found on these properties, in which case we may be liable for remediation costs and related personal injury and property damage. Compliance with environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. Environmental indemnifications obtained from borrowers and their principals or affiliates may not adequately compensate the Bank for losses related to environmental conditions. The remediation costs and financial liabilities associated with environmental conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recent disruptions in the subprime mortgage market and weakness in the real estate market that seems, in part, related to problems in the subprime market may continue to impact our operations. Subprime mortgages are residential mortgage loans intended for borrowers who are perceived to have high credit risk. Subprime lenders and other participants in the subprime mortgage market have recently experienced higher than anticipated levels of borrower defaults and lender foreclosures in the past year, which in turn has caused significant adverse economic consequences to many participants in the subprime lending market, including loan originators, loan servicers, and participants in the secondary loan markets. These consequences have spread to other markets, including, most significantly, the general credit markets and real estate markets. In the past year, federal banking regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, issued statements in support of loan modification programs for existing subprime loans. Federal and state legislators and regulators may pursue increased regulation of how loans are originated, purchased, and sold, regardless of whether those loans are made to subprime borrowers. Disruptions in the lending market and related regulatory responses may impact how the Bank buys and sells loans in the future or how the Bank underwrites loans that it originates, any of which could have a negative impact on our operations, capital, revenues, and net earnings, or materially reduce the liquidity provided to us by the secondary loan market. We have experienced a high rate of default in connection with our two-step loan portfolio, which we believe is due, in part, to the disruptions in the lending and real estate markets. We expect to experience further defaults and the rate of defaults may worsen if the lending and real estate markets do not stabilize and eventually begin to improve. Significant legal and regulatory actions could subject us to uninsured liabilities and associated reputational risk. From time to time, we are sued for damages or threatened with lawsuits relating to various aspects of our operations. We may also be subject to investigations and possibly substantial civil money penalties assessed by federal or state regulators in connection with violations of applicable laws and regulations. We may incur substantial attorney fees and expenses in the process of defending against lawsuits or regulatory actions and our insurance policies may not cover, or cover adequately, the costs of adverse judgments, civil money penalties, and attorney fees and expenses. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital, and financial condition. We are subject to reputational risk, which is the potential that negative publicity regarding our business practices, whether true or not, could cause a decline in our customer base, stock price, or general reputation in the markets in which we operate. Reputational risk is heightened in the instance of publicity surrounding lawsuits or regulatory actions. Slower than anticipated growth and/or revenues from new branches and product and service offerings could result in reduced net income. We have placed a strategic emphasis on expanding our branch network and product offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth in new branches and products as well as associated revenues. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth at new branches and lower than expected demand for new product offerings may decrease anticipated revenues and net income. Opening new branches and introducing new products may result in more expenses than anticipated and divert financial and personnel resources from current core operations. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales of mortgage and SBA loans, and loan repurchase obligations, could adversely affect our net income. We originate and sell mortgage loans and the guaranteed portion of SBA loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of the loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold may reduce associated revenues and net income. In the event of certain breaches of warranties and representations made by us in connection with loan sales, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase loans sold to correspondent lenders in the secondary market. Any repurchases would alter our financial assumptions which were based on recognizing the revenue associated with the original sale of the loans, and could adversely affect the results of our lending operations. 10 Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including, but not limited to, major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in our net income. We face operational risks that may result in unexpected losses. We face various operational risk that arise from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, failures in internal controls, breaches of our security systems, fraud, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, or any number of unforeseen catastrophes could result in unexpected losses. Additionally, third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access, data reporting, and data processing. Any problems caused by third parties could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and our revenues, expenses, and earnings. Replacing third party vendors, should that be necessary, may entail significant delay and expense. The financial services industry is very competitive. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans and providing other financial services. Our competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than us. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see “Business—Competition” in Item 1 above. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and income from deposits, loans, and other products may be reduced. We are currently in a particularly competitive market for low cost deposits, which has led to increased pressure on our net interest margin. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 