ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Downturns in the aerospace and automotive industries we serve would adversely affect our sales and operating results. In 2006, sales to customers in the aerospace and automotive industries accounted for a majority of our revenue. Reductions in capital spending and cyclical trends affecting customers in these industries could adversely affect revenue from these customers and our results of operations. In addition, these types of customers tend to adhere to a technology choice for long periods, possibly an entire development cycle. As a result, a lost opportunity with a given customer may not again become a new opportunity for several years. If we do not acquire other companies, we may not be able to increase our revenue at historical growth rates. Our historical revenue growth has been augmented by acquisitions. Our future revenue growth rate may decline if we do not make acquisitions of similar size and at a comparable rate as in the past. We have acquired and may continue to acquire other companies and may be unable to integrate successfully such companies with our operations, and we have recorded, and may continue to record, a significant amount of goodwill in connection with our acquisitions. Since 1998, we have acquired several companies and businesses, most recently SOFY in 2004. We may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from companies we acquire include those associated with: • integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel; • unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company; • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • coordinating our new product and process development; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; • other difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products; and • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines with our operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our acquisitions, goodwill accounted for approximately $151.7 million, or 33.0%, of our total assets, as of December 31, 2006. We may record additional goodwill related to future acquisitions. Under current generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill. We will, however, perform an impairment analysis on the carrying value of our goodwill at least annually. If the financial benefits of our acquisitions do not ultimately exceed the associated costs, we could be required to write down some or all of the unamortized goodwill. As a result, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Mergers and acquisitions and investments in technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions or investments will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to products or the acquiree’s business. If we are unable to complete an acquisition or an acquisition is delayed, our business could be adversely affected due to diversion of management attention and company resources from alternative approaches, which may prevent us from achieving strategic goals. We may also incur third party costs in the evaluation, negotiation and completion of acquisitions. These costs are deferred and treated as part of the acquisition cost upon completion of the acquisition. If an acquisition is not completed, the deferred costs are charged to earnings in the period in which the acquisition is certain not to be completed, which can impact our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We have had losses and, should they recur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our net income for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005, and 2006 was $10.9 million, $11.8 million and $13.8 million, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $97.0 million as of December 31, 2006. We cannot assure you that we will operate profitably, and if we cannot operate profitably, we may not be able to meet our debt service requirements or our working capital or other needs. Our inability to meet these needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may periodically restructure our operations or change our pricing model, which could adversely impact our operating results in the short term before we receive any benefits from these changes, if at all. We continually evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of our operations. In connection with this evaluation, we may decide to reduce or realign our available resources and, as a result, consolidate, shut down or sell product lines that do not fit into our long-term business plan. If we reduce headcount in the future, we will incur significant severance and termination costs and other related expenses that could harm our business before we were to receive any benefit, if at all, from the reduced headcount expenses. If we shut down or otherwise dispose of any of our product lines in the future, we may incur costs or charges, receive less in the sale than such assets are worth, disrupt customer goodwill or lose revenue streams in connection with such a restructuring that could harm our business before we were to receive any benefit, if at all, from the restructuring. In addition, we may introduce changes to our pricing model, and these changes may not result in increased or even the same level of revenue in the timeframes that we anticipate, or at all. On January 17, 2007, our Board of Directors approved the implementation of a cost reduction program that included a workforce reduction of 85 employees, or approximately 7%, and facility closings and consolidations. The cost reduction program was deemed necessary to better align the Company’s global operating costs with its new enterprise sales strategy in an effort to compete aggressively in all markets and to improve operating profit. The Company estimates that total costs related to the cost reduction program will be between $6.0 million and $8.0 million, which includes a charge for severance and termination benefits of between $5.0 million and $6.5 million and charges related to facility closings and consolidations of between $1.0 million and $1.5 million. The Company expects such charges will be incurred and recognized in the first and second quarters of 2007. Our operating results are dependent in part on our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and we may not be able to develop new and enhanced products to satisfy changes in demand. Our operating results depend in part on our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product development and marketing depends on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer requirements, changes in technology, our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to develop and market new or enhanced products in a timely or cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that satisfy customer requirements. Our products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly anticipate technological changes. Our sales cycle is lengthy and complicated. The development of a business relationship with a potential licensee can be a lengthy process, spanning twelve months or longer, especially for large enterprise transactions. The Company’s strategy is to increasingly allocate sales resources towards large enterprise transactions. The sales cycle can involve multiple divisions within a potential licensee’s organization and multiple layers of management, thus making our sales process relatively complicated and long. Additionally, negotiating the terms of a new license agreement can be a protracted process with no set timetable for completion. Due to the length and complicated nature of our sales cycle, predicting the fiscal period in which a new license agreement will be entered into, if at all, and the financial terms of such an agreement is difficult. The timing of orders and shipments, which frequently occur at the end of a quarter, can cause fluctuations of our operating results that, in turn, may impact the price of our common stock. We derive most of our revenue from licensing software products and selling services to high-end users of the product design markets. Our revenue growth and our ability to match spending levels with revenue growth rates will directly affect our future operating results. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue has been generated in the last month of a quarter, with this revenue frequently concentrated in the last weeks or days of a quarter. In addition, higher volumes of orders have been experienced in the fourth quarter. The concentration of orders makes projections of quarterly financial results difficult. Accordingly, we may experience fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly and annual basis which, in turn, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. 11 Table of Contents Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Although we may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets, or generating revenue from foreign operations, we currently anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. Expansion into international markets requires management attention and resources. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenue from foreign operations. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors related to our international operations, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; • burdens on complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • meeting import and export licensing requirements; • natural disasters or outbreaks of infectious diseases affecting the regions in which we or our licenses sell products; • tariffs, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in foreign government regulations, tax laws and regulatory requirements; • difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs; • disproportionate management attention or company resources; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; and • less effective protection of intellectual property. We are subject to changes in demand for our products and services resulting from exchange rate fluctuations that make our products and services relatively more or less expensive in international markets. If exchange rate fluctuations occur, our business could be harmed by decreases in demand for our products and services or reductions in gross margins. We have entered into agreements with third parties for the inclusion of their technology as a component of some of our products. The termination of these agreements could adversely affect our business. Some of our products include technology licensed from third parties and we have entered into several royalty agreements for use of such technology. Should these agreements be terminated, we would need to find an alternative source to replace the functionality of such technology. We believe that we would be able to find an alternative source of the technology, or replace the functionality through internal development. In addition, these agreements allow for significant lead time prior to termination by the third party, which should allow us sufficient time to replace the functionality. However, in the event that all of these agreements were terminated within a very short time period, there is no guarantee that we could replace the technology and the marketability of our products could be harmed if we were unable to do so. In addition, certain products or technologies acquired or developed by us may incorporate so-called “open-source” software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge, but certain open source software licenses impose on the licensee of the applicable open source software certain requirements to license or make available to others both the open source software as well as the software that relates to, or interacts with, the open source software. Our ability to commercialize products or technologies incorporating open source software or otherwise fully realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition may be restricted as a result of using such open source software because, among other reasons: • open source license terms may be ambiguous and may be subject to unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies; • competitors may have improved access to information that may help them develop competitive products: • open source software cannot be protected under trade secret law; • it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the open source code and whether the acquired open source software in fact infringes third party intellectual property rights; and • open source software potentially increases customer support cost because (i) such software typically does not contain warranties as to functionality or is not accompanied by any support offerings from the provider of such open source software and (ii) licensees can modify the software and potentially introduce errors. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the operation of our software will be impaired if errors occur in third-party software that we utilize. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the development and maintenance of the software is not in our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in our software. There can be no assurance that these third-parties will continue to make their software available to us on acceptable terms, will continue to invest the appropriate level of resources in their products and services to maintain and enhance the software capabilities, or will continue to remain in business. Our operating expenses are fixed in advance. Therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses in response to any revenue shortfalls. We plan our operating expense levels, in part, on expected revenue growth. Our expense levels, however, are generally committed in advance and, in the near term, we are able to change only a relatively small portion of our expenses. As a result, our ability to convert operating outlays into expected revenue growth at profitable margins will affect our future operating results. If our future revenue is less than expected, our net income may be disproportionately affected since expenses are relatively fixed. Strong competition in the simulation software industry may affect prices, which could reduce margins and adversely affect our operating results and financial position, and we may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors. The simulation software industry is highly competitive. The industry may experience pricing and margin pressure which could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Some of our current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, and some have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers. It is also possible that alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or that competition will increase as a result of software industry consolidation. To remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the software business include quality, functionality, ease of use and, to a lesser extent, price. In our professional services business, we believe that the principal competitive factor is expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the software industry. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified personnel who may leave our employ in the future. Any growth we experience is expected to place increased demands on our resources and will likely require the addition of management and technical personnel, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key technical and management personnel could harm our business. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations and those of our licensees, developers and customers are vulnerable to interruptions by fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars and other events beyond our control. Our corporate headquarters are located in California, near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. The business interruption insurance under which we are covered may not be sufficient to compensate us fully for losses or damages that may occur as a result of these events, if at all. Any such losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our financial results may suffer. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, the steps we take to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, and our competitors may independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. 13 Table of Contents We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Policing the unauthorized use of our products or intellectual property is difficult and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Regardless of the merits of any claim, intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. Despite our efforts, we may not be successful in any litigation or other enforcement action we may bring and may not be able to detect infringement and, as a result, may lose competitive position in the market. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing laws, contractual provisions and remedies afford only limited protection. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, among other things, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in enforcement of, or defending ourselves against, intellectual property claims. Moreover, attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our product or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use. Unauthorized use by others of our proprietary rights could materially harm our business. We could be harmed by litigation involving intellectual property rights. We may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Furthermore, we may have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by our products. Infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers or end users of our products resulting from infringement claims may be asserted in the future and such assertions, if proven to be true, may harm our business. Any litigation relating to the intellectual property rights of third parties, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, would at a minimum be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. In the event of any adverse ruling in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement. A license might not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may delay, defer or prevent a change in control which could impact the price of our stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and Restated Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include the following: • division of our board of directors into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • removal of directors for cause only; • ability of the board to authorize the issuance of preferred stock in series; • vesting of authority in the board to determine the size of the board (subject to certain limited exceptions) and to fill vacancies thereon; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board. In addition to the above provisions, in 1998 we adopted a shareholder rights plan. This plan was amended as of October 18, 2004 and entitles each registered holder to purchase from us, under certain circumstances, one one-hundredth of a share of Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $35.00, subject to adjustments. The rights are generally exercisable only if a person or group acquires 20.0% or more of our stock or announces a tender or exchange offer the completion of which would result in ownership by a person or group of 20.0% or more of our stock. In the event of a transaction commonly known as a “squeeze-out merger,” each holder of Junior Participating Preferred Stock may purchase either our common stock or the common stock of the merged entity at one-half of such stock’s market value. We may redeem the rights at a nominal value until ten days after the announcement of the acquisition of such a 20.0% interest and under certain other circumstances. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 14 Table of Contents 