Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Competition Murphy operates in the oil and gas industry and experiences intense competition from other oil and gas companies, which include state-owned foreign oil companies, major integrated oil companies, independent producers of oil and natural gas and independent refining companies. Virtually all of the state-owned and major integrated oil companies and many of the independent producers and refiners that compete with the Company have substantially greater resources than Murphy. In addition, the oil industry as a whole competes with other industries in supplying energy requirements around the world. Murphy competes, among other things, for valuable acreage positions, exploration licenses, drilling equipment and human resources. Reserve Replacement Murphy continually depletes its oil and natural reserves as production occurs. In order to sustain and grow its business, the Company must successfully replace the crude oil and natural gas it produces with additional reserves. Therefore, it must create and maintain a portfolio of good prospects for future reserve additions and production by obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce hydrocarbons in promising areas. In addition, it must find, develop and produce and/or purchase reserves found at a competitive cost structure to be successful in the long-term. Murphy’s ability to operate profitably in the exploration and production segments of its business, therefore, is dependent on its ability to find, develop and produce and/or purchase oil and natural gas reserves at costs that are less than the realized sales price for these products and at costs competitive with competing companies in the industry. Proved Reserves Proved crude oil and natural gas reserves included in this report on pages F-35 and F-36 have been prepared by Company personnel and outside experts based on oil and natural gas prices in effect at the end of each year as well as other conditions and information available at the time the estimates were prepared. Estimation of reserves is a subjective process that involves professional judgment by engineers about volumes to be recovered in future periods from underground crude oil and natural gas reservoirs. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, and consequently, different engineers could arrive at different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data and using industry accepted engineering practices and scientific methods. Future changes in crude oil and natural gas prices may have a material effect on the reported quantity of our proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future cash flows relating to proved reserves. Future reserve revisions could also occur as a result of changes in other factors such as governmental regulations. The discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based generally on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital and the risks associated with our business and the crude oil and natural gas business in general. Price Volatility The most significant variables affecting the Company’s results of operations are the sales prices for crude oil, natural gas and refined products that it produces. The Company’s income in 2006 was favorably affected by high crude oil and natural gas prices; if these prices decline significantly in 2007 or future years, the Company’s results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, the Company’s net income could be adversely affected by lower future refining and marketing margins. Except in limited cases, the Company typically does not seek to hedge any significant portion of its exposure to the effects of changing prices of crude oil, natural gas and refined products. Certain of the Company’s crude oil production is heavy and more sour than West Texas Intermediate (WTI) quality crude; therefore, this crude oil usually sells at a discount to WTI and other light and sweet crude oils. In addition, the sales prices for heavy and sour crude oils do not always move in relation to price changes for WTI and lighter/sweeter crude oils. 8 Table of Contents Dry Hole Exposure The Company generally drills numerous wildcat wells each year which subjects its upstream operating results to significant exposure to dry holes expense, which have adverse effects on, and create volatility for, the Company’s overall net income. In 2006, significant wildcat wells were primarily drilled offshore Malaysia and in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The Company’s 2007 budget calls for wildcat drilling primarily in the Gulf of Mexico, offshore Malaysia and the Republic of Congo. Capital Financing Murphy usually must spend and risk a significant amount of capital to find and develop reserves prior to the time revenue is generated from production. Although most capital needs are funded from operating cash flow, the timing of cash flows from operations and capital funding needs may not always coincide. Therefore, the Company maintains financing arrangements with lending institutions to meet certain funding needs. The Company must periodically renew these financing arrangements based on foreseeable financing needs. Although not considered likely, there is the possibility that financing arrangements may not always be available at sufficient levels required to fund the Company’s development activities. Limited Control The ability of the Company to successfully manage development and operating costs is important because virtually all of the products it sells are energy commodities such as crude oil, natural gas and refined products, for which the Company has little or no influence on the sales prices or regional and worldwide consumer demand for these products. Murphy is a net purchaser of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks, and also purchases refined products, particularly gasoline, needed to supply its retail marketing stations located at Wal-Mart Supercenters. Therefore, its most significant costs are subject to volatility of prices for these commodities. The Company also often experiences pressure on its operating and capital expenditures in periods of strong crude oil, natural gas and refined product prices such as those experienced in 2006 and 2005 because an increase in exploration and production activities due to high oil and gas sales prices generally leads to higher demand for, and consequently higher costs for, goods and services in the oil and gas industry. Most of the Company’s major producing properties are operated by others. In addition, Murphy derives a significant portion of its U.S. revenue at Company-owned and operated gasoline stations located on properties leased from Wal-Mart. Therefore, Murphy does not fully control all activities at certain of its significant revenue generating properties. Outside Forces The operations and earnings of Murphy have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide political developments. Many governments, including those that are members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), unilaterally intervene at times in the orderly market of crude oil and natural gas produced in their countries through such actions as setting prices, determining rates of production, and controlling who may buy and sell the production. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 46% of proved reserves, as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, were located in countries other than the U.S., Canada and the U.K. Certain of the reserves held outside these three countries could be considered to have more political risk. In addition, prices and availability of crude oil, natural gas and refined products could be influenced by political unrest and by various governmental policies to restrict or increase petroleum usage and supply. Other governmental actions that could affect Murphy’s operations and earnings include tax changes, royalty increases and regulations concerning: currency fluctuations, protection and remediation of the environment (See the caption “Environmental” beginning on page 27 of this Form 10-K report), preferential and discriminatory awarding of oil and gas leases, restrictions on drilling and/or production, restraints and controls on imports and exports, safety, and relationships between employers and employees. Because these and other factors too numerous to list are subject to changes caused by governmental and political considerations and are often made in response to changing internal and worldwide economic conditions and to actions of other governments or specific events, it is not practical to attempt to predict the effects of such factors on Murphy’s future operations and earnings. Industry and Other Risks Murphy’s business is subject to operational hazards and risks normally associated with the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas and the refining and marketing of crude oil and petroleum products. The Company operates in urban and remote, and often inhospitable, areas around the world. The occurrence of an event, including but not limited to acts of nature such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes and other forms of severe weather, and mechanical equipment failures, industrial accidents, fires, explosions, acts of war and intentional terrorist attacks could result in the loss of hydrocarbons and associated revenues, environmental pollution or contamination, and personal injury, including death, for which the Company could be deemed to be liable, and which could subject the Company to substantial fines and/or claims for punitive damages. 9 Table of Contents The location of many of Murphy’s key assets causes the Company to be vulnerable to severe weather, including hurricanes and tropical storms. A number of significant oil and natural gas fields lie in offshore waters around the world. Probably the most vulnerable of the Company’s offshore fields are in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, where severe hurricanes and tropical storms have often led to shutdowns and damages. The U.S. hurricane season runs from June through November, but the most severe storm activities usually occur in late summer, such as with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. Additionally, the Company’s largest refinery is located about 10 miles southeast of New Orleans, Louisiana. In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina passed near the refinery causing major flooding and severe wind damage. The gradual loss of coastal wetlands in southeast Louisiana increases the risk of future flooding should storms such as Katrina recur in the future. Other assets such as gasoline terminals and certain retail gasoline stations also lie near the Gulf of Mexico coastlines and are vulnerable to storm damages. During the repairs at Meraux following Hurricane Katrina, the refinery took steps to try to reduce the potential for damages from future storms of similar magnitude. For example, certain key equipment such as motors and pumps were raised above ground level when feasible. These steps may somewhat reduce the damages associated with windstorm and major flooding that could occur with a future storm similar in strength to Katrina, but the risks from such a storm are not eliminated. Although the Company also maintains insurance for such risks as described below, due to policy deductibles and possible coverage limits, weather-related risks are not fully insured. Insurance Murphy maintains insurance against certain, but not all, hazards that could arise from its operations, and such insurance is believed to be reasonable for the hazards and risks faced by the Company. As of December 31, 2006, the Company maintained total excess liability insurance with limits of $750 million per occurrence covering certain general liability and certain “sudden and accidental” environmental risks. The Company also maintained insurance coverage with an additional limit of $250 million per occurrence, all or part of which could be applicable to certain sudden and accidental pollution events. There can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to offset costs associated with certain events or that insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future on terms that justify its purchase. The occurrence of an event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in the future. During 2005, damages from hurricanes caused shut-down of certain U.S. oil and gas production operations as well as the Meraux, Louisiana refinery. The Company repaired the Meraux refinery and it restarted operations in mid-2006. The Company does not expect to fully recover repair costs incurred at Meraux under its insurance policies. See Note O in the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Litigation The Company is involved in numerous lawsuits seeking cash settlements for alleged personal injuries, property damages and other business-related matters. The most significant of these matters are addressed in more detail in Item 3 beginning on page 11 of this Form 10-K report. Credit Exposure Although Murphy limits its credit risk by selling its products to numerous entities worldwide, it still, at times, carries substantial credit risk from its customers. For certain oil and gas properties operated by the Company, other companies which own partial interests may not be able to meet their financial obligation to pay for their share of capital and operating costs as they come due. Retirement Plans A number of actuarial assumptions impact funding requirements for the Company’s retirement plans. The most significant of these assumptions include return on assets, long-term interest rates and mortality. If the actual results for the plans vary significantly from the actuarial assumptions used, or if laws regulating such retirement plans are changed, Murphy could be required to make significant funding payments to one or more of its retirement plans in the future and/or it could be required to record a larger liability for future obligations in its Consolidated Balance Sheet. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company had no unresolved comments from the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as of December 31, 2006. 10 Table of Contents 