Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial results and the market price of our stock in future periods are subject to risks arising from many factors, including the following: (Please note that the discussions below regarding potential impact on Arrow of certain of these factors that may develop in the future are not meant to provide predictions by Arrow's management that such factors will develop, but to acknowledge the possible impact that could occur if the factors do develop.) Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry. For many financial institutions, dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values. To date, the impact of these adverse market conditions has been less significant on Arrow than it has been on many other U.S. financial institutions. Write-downs at many of these other institutions, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused a number of those institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. Generally, in the financial services sector, this market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies at many institutions, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. Although this turmoil has affected Arrow and our local markets less than certain other institutions and markets so far, the resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has already, to some extent, adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market developments may continue to affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Arrow and others in the financial institutions industry. If economic conditions, already weak, should worsen and the U.S. experiences a prolonged economic slump, the company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses at the balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio and other factors. 7 If the economy in our geographic market area, northeastern region of New York State, should deteriorate or enter into a prolonged state of recession, this may have an additional adverse impact on our loan portfolio. If the quality of our portfolio should weaken due to this impact, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future enhanced provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect financial results. Moreover, loan portfolio difficulties often accompany difficulties in other areas of our business, including growth of our business generally, thereby compounding the negative effects on earnings. A sustained and/or significant increase in domestic interest rates could negatively affect the company’s net interest income. An institution’s net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, including short-term and long-term rates and the relationship between the two. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve Board, and actions taken by foreign central banks. Like all financial institutions, the Company’s balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Recently, long-term interest rates have begun to rise, and many commentators believe that the Federal Reserve and other central banks will begin to increase short-term rates within the next 12 months or soon thereafter. Together, these developments (i.e., a rising rate environment) may negatively affect banks’ profitability. See the discussion under “Changes in Net Interest Income Due to Rate,” on page 27 of this Report. If economic conditions worsen significantly and the U.S. financial markets should suffer another downturn, the company may experience limited access to credit markets. As discussed under Part I, Item 7.D. “Liquidity,” the company has relationships with various third parties to provide overnight and longer-term credit arrangements. As these third parties themselves have difficulty in accessing their own credit markets then we may, in turn, experience a decrease in our capacity to borrow funds from them or other third parties traditionally relied upon by banks for liquidity. If the value of real estate in our market area were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which might have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral, which in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. This real property may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is outstanding. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the possibility of legislative changes at the Federal or State level, related to foreclosure proceedings, may result in negative impacts to financial institutions. If securities prices should significantly decline in upcoming periods (a “double dip” recession), we likely will experience a reduction in income from fiduciary activities. The most significant portion of the income we earn from managing assets in our fiduciary capacity is tied to the market value of those assets, i.e., investment securities. We are subject to the local economies where we operate, and unfavorable economic conditions in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the growth in business activity, income levels and deposits in our geographic market area. Unpredictable and unfavorable economic conditions unique to our market area may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and financial performance. As a community bank, we are less able than our larger regional competitors to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions over a larger market area. Moreover, we cannot give any assurances that we will benefit from any unique and favorable economic conditions in our market area, even if they do occur. Current levels of market volatility. The market for certain investment securities, including mortgage-backed securities, has been highly volatile or inactive, and may not stabilize or resume in the near future. This volatility can result in significant fluctuation in the prices of those securities, some of which we hold in our investment portfolio, which could affect the results of our operations. Changes in accounting standards may materially impact the company’s financial statements. From time-to-time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial statements. Specifically, changes in the fair value of our financial assets could have a significant negative impact on our asset portfolios and indirectly on our capital levels. The Company’s business could suffer if it loses key personnel unexpectedly or fails to provide for an orderly management succession. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our key personnel for the duration of their expected terms of service, and to arrange for an orderly succession of other, equally skilled personnel. Competition for the best people in our business can be intense. While our Board of Directors actively reviews succession plans, any sudden unexpected change at the senior management level may adversely affect our business. The Company relies on other companies to provide key components of the company’s business infrastructure. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution. These parties are beyond our control, and any problems caused or experienced by these third parties, including their not providing us their services or performing such services poorly, or not being able to continue to perform such services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and conduct our business. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Arrow. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Arrow has exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other financial institutions. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and to losses or defaults by Arrow or by other institutions and organizations. Many of these transactions expose Arrow to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, Arrow’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by Arrow cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due Arrow. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 8 The Company faces continuing and growing security risks to its own information base and to information on its customers. The computer systems and network infrastructure that we use are always vulnerable to unforeseen problems, including theft of confidential customer information (“identity theft”) and interruption of service as a result of fire, natural disasters, explosion or general infrastructure failure. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third-party service providers. We constantly assess and attempt to improve our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks in these areas are substantially escalating. The company’s stock price may begin to reflect market volatility more closely than it has in the past. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; new technology used or services offered by our competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. Many of these factors that may adversely affect our stock price are less reflective of our particular condition or operating results than general market fluctuations, industry-wide factors or general economic or political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations. We may be adversely affected by new and enhanced government regulation. Even before the recent financial crisis and regulatory changes to law and regulation, we were subject to extensive federal and state banking regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect our depositors’ funds and the federal deposit insurance funds, not the company’s stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could result in the imposition of limitations on our operations that would adversely impact our operations and could, if capital levels dropped significantly, result in our being required to cease or scale back our operations. On top of the preexisting regulatory structure, the recent changes in governing law, regulations and regulatory practices could impose additional costs on us or adversely affect our ability to obtain deposits or make loans and thereby hurt our revenues and profitability. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank are subject to additional regulation and rulemaking before implementation. In addition, Dodd-Frank requires multiple studies which could result in additional legislative action. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank or the resulting regulations and rules may adversely impact the Company. However, compliance with the Dodd-Frank may increase our costs, cause us to modify our strategies and business operations, and increase our capital requirements, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments - None 