Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial results and the market price of our stock in future periods are subject to risks arising from many factors, including: If economic conditions worsen or the U.S. experiences a nationwide recession, the company’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and uncollectibility. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio and other factors. For a variety of reasons, including falling home prices nationwide and a general deterioration in U.S. credit markets over the past six months to one year, the rate of growth in the national economy slowed dramatically in the fourth quarter of 2007 and available data suggests that economi c conditions may continue to deteriorate in upcoming periods. If the economy in our geographic market area, Northeastern New York State, should deteriorate or enter into a “recession” state, this may have an adverse impact on our loan portfolio. If the quality of our portfolio should weaken, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect financial results. Moreover, loan portfolio difficulties often accompany difficulties in other areas of our business, including our investment portfolio and growth of our business generally, thereby compounding the negative effects on earnings. The domestic interest rate environment could negatively affect the company’s net interest income. An institution’s net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest, including short-term and long-term rates and the relationship between the two. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve Board, and actions taken by foreign central banks. Like all financial institutions, the Company’s balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions. See the discussion under “Changes in Net Interest Income Due to Rate,” on page 18 of this Report. The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect the company’s financial results. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued entry into the banking business by non-banking companies. Traditionally we compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. However, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of these new competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. Changes in accounting standards may materially impact the company’s financial statements. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial statements. The company’s business could suffer if it loses key personnel unexpectedly or fails to provide for an orderly management succession. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our key personnel for the duration of their expected terms of service, and to arrange for an orderly succession of other, equally skilled personnel. Competition for the best people in our business can be intense. While our Board of Directors actively reviews succession plans, any sudden change at the senior management level may adversely affect our business. The company relies on other companies to provide key components of the company’s business infrastructure. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution. These parties are beyond our control, and any problems caused by these third parties, including their not providing us their services or performing such services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and conduct our business. Significant legal actions could subject the company to substantial uninsured liabilities. From time to time we are subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To protect ourselves from the cost of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations, but this insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or may increase substantially in cost. As a result, we may be exposed to significant uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The company is exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title to properties. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate, including commercial real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable for substantial amounts to a government entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. The company faces continuing and growing security risks to its own information base and to information on its customers. The computer systems and network infrastructure that we use, are always vulnerable to unforeseen problems, including theft of confidential customer information (“identity theft”) and interruption of service as a result of fire, natural disasters, explosion or general infrastructure failure. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third-party service providers. We constantly assess and attempt to improve our security systems and disaster preparedness, but the risks in these areas are substantially escalating. The company’s stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; new technology used or services offered by our competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. Many of these factors that may adversely affect our stock price do not directly pertain to our operating results, including general market fluctuations, industry-wide factors and economic and general political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate c hanges, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations. If the value of real estate in our market area were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which might have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral, which in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. This real property may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is outstanding. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Our geographic market area experienced real estate price appreciation in the period 2002-2007 but property values in our region have recently leveled off and future declines in property values, of the sort being experienced elsewhere in the U.S. currently, are quite possible. We are subject to the local economies where we operate, and unfavorable economic conditions in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels and deposits in our geographic market area. Unpredictable and unfavorable economic conditions unique to our market area may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and financial performance. As a community bank, we are less able than our larger regional competitors to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions over a larger market area. Moreover, we cannot give any assurances that we will benefit from any unique and favorable economic conditions in our market area, even if they do occur. We may be adversely affected by government regulation. We are subject to extensive federal and state banking regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect our depositors’ funds and the federal deposit insurance funds, not the company’s shareholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements could result in the imposition of limitations on our operations that would adversely impact our operations and could, if capital levels dropped significantly, result in our being required to cease or scale back our operations. Changes in governing law, regulations or regulatory practices could impose additional costs on us or adversely affect our ability to obtain deposits or make loans and thereby hurt o ur revenues and profitability. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments - None 