Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial results and the market price of our stock in future periods are subject to risks arising from many factors, including the risks listed below, as well as other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we have currently determined to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. (Please note that the discussions below regarding potential impact on Arrow of certain of these factors that may develop in the future are not meant to provide predictions by Arrow's management that such factors will develop, but to acknowledge the possible impact that could occur if the factors do develop.)Difficult market conditions continue to adversely affect the U.S. commercial banking industry and its core business of making and servicing loans and could adversely affect our ability to originate loans. Many existing or potential loan customers of commercial banks, especially individuals and small businesses, continue to experience financial and budgetary pressures that both challenge their ability to service their existing indebtedness and sharply restrict their ability or willingness to incur additional indebtedness. The demand for loans, even among creditworthy customers, continues to be soft in the aftermath of the 2008-2010 financial crisis, despite the historically low prevailing rates of interest for all types of credit. To date, there is little expectation that the U.S. consumer or commercial banking industry is likely to experience strong asset or profit growth in the near future, even as the U.S economy is beginning to show some signs of strengthening. Consumers and small businesses are still struggling under heavy debt loads, which is likely to weigh against any surge in growth or profitability in the banking sector generally in upcoming periods. This cautionary scenario confronts us as it confronts all commercial banks, large and small, and could adversely affect our ability to originate loans.U.S. bank loan portfolios, although generally improving in quality, continue to experience signs of weakness or stress, particularly in the consumer loan sector, which could deteriorate quickly if the U.S. economy experiences even a modest downturn and which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. Home prices in all regions of the U.S., including our market area in northeastern New York, have stabilized or even strengthened somewhat in recent periods. Delinquency and charge-off rates in bank loan portfolios have also begun to improve. However, many banks continue to have substantial exposure in their loan portfolios to borrowers, particularly individual and small business borrowers, that if confronted by an economic downturn of any consequence, perhaps one that results in their loss of a job or the failure of a business, may quickly fall in arrears on their borrowings. We, like most banks, believe that the quality of our loan portfolio is strong and our allowance entirely adequate to cover all embedded risk, but any downturn of consequence in the economy, nationwide or in our region, would likely rekindle the stress in loan portfolios that many banks have been living with in recent years, potentially damaging our financial condition and results.The recent strong performance in U.S. equity markets has not been matched by comparable strengthening in the U.S. economy generally, or in the core business of the U.S. commercial banking sector and a weak U.S. economy could adversely impact our financial results. The U.S. financial sector, particularly that portion that is focused on the equity markets (i.e., “Wall Street”), has largely recovered from the 2008-2010 financial crisis, with a notably strong performance during calendar year 2013, in which equity markets recorded substantial gains, by some measures exceeding 30%, propelling them beyond pre-crisis levels. At the same time, the wider U.S. economy, especially the business sector that underlies the day-to-day health of U.S. commercial banks (“Main Street”), has experienced a much more sluggish recovery, that in many areas has not returned market participants, including companies, workers and municipalities, to levels of financial health they enjoyed before the crisis. Commercial banks like ours are much more tied, in terms of growth and profits, to the Main Street Sector rather than the Wall Street Sector. Accordingly, our financial results and condition may be adversely impacted by weak economic conditions. Any future economic or financial downturn, including any significant correction in the recent “hot” equity markets, may negatively affect the volume of income attributable to, and demand for, fee-based services of banks such as ours which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operation. Revenues from our trust and wealth management business are dependent on the level of assets under management. Any significant downturn in the equity markets may lead our trust and wealth management customers to liquidate their investments, or may diminish account values for those customers who elect to retain their portfolios with us, in either case reducing our assets under management and thereby decreasing our revenues from this important sector of our business. We may be adversely affected by new and enhanced government regulation of banks, especially the new rules promulgated under Dodd-Frank. Even before the recent financial crisis and the resulting new banking laws and regulations, including Dodd-Frank, we were subject to extensive Federal and state banking regulations and supervision. Banking laws and regulations are intended primarily to protect bank depositors’ funds (and indirectly the Federal deposit insurance funds) as well as bank retail customers, who may lack the sophistication to understand or appreciate bank products and services. These laws and regulations generally are not, however, aimed at protecting or enhancing the returns on investment enjoyed by bank shareholders.This depositor/customer orientation is particularly true of the recently adopted set of banking laws and regulations, under the Dodd-Frank Act, which were passed in the aftermath of the 2008-2010 financial crisis and in large part were intended to better protect bank customers (and to some degree, banks) against the wide variety of lending products and aggressive lending practices that pre-dated the crisis and are seen as contributing to its severity. Although not all banks offered such products or engaged in such practices, all banks are affected by the new laws and regulations to some degree.Dodd-Frank restricts our lending practices, requires us to expend substantial resources to safeguard customers and otherwise comply with the new rules, and subjects us to significantly higher minimum capital requirements in future periods, which may serve # 14as a drag on our earnings, growth and ultimately on our dividends and stock price (the new capital standards are separately addressed in the following risk factor). Failure to meet these new minimum capital requirements or comply with these rules could result in the imposition of limitations on our operations that would adversely impact our profitability and could, if capital levels dropped significantly, result in our being required to cease or scale back our operations or raise capital at inopportune times or unsatisfactory prices.At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which Dodd-Frank and the resulting new regulations and rules may adversely impact our business or financial results. It is reasonably certain, however, that Dodd-Frank will increase our costs, require us to modify certain strategies and business operations, and require us to revise our capital and liquidity structures which, individually or collectively, may very well have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. New capital and liquidity standards adopted by the U.S. banking regulators will result in banks and bank holding companies needing to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case. New and evolving capital standards, particularly those adopted as a result of Dodd-Frank, will have a significant effect on banks and bank holding companies, including Arrow. These new standards, when implemented and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand. It could also result in our being required to take steps to increase our regulatory capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. If economic conditions, already weak, should worsen and the U.S. experiences a recession or prolonged economic stagnation, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses at the balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio and other factors. If the economy in our geographic market area, the northeastern region of New York State, or in the U.S. generally, should deteriorate to the point that recessionary conditions return, or if the regional or national economy experiences a protracted period of stagnation, the quality of our loan portfolio may weaken significantly. If so, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future enhanced provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect financial results. Moreover, weak or worsening economic conditions often lead to difficulties in other areas of our business, including growth of our business generally, thereby compounding the negative effects on earnings. The current interest rate environment is not particularly favorable for commercial banks generally or their core businesses, nor are any prospective changes in prevailing interest rates, in the near- or middle-term, likely to significantly improve commercial banks’ prospects or financial performance, and may actually have a negative impact on our prospects and performance. Prevailing market interest rates, and changes in those rates, have a direct and material impact on the financial performance and condition of commercial banks. A bank’s net interest income is usually the most important part of its income, and prevailing rates for bank assets and bank liabilities generally determine the net interest income.Currently, market interest rates in the U.S., across all maturities and for all types of loans, are at historic lows, and have been for several years. This is a direct consequence of the 2008-2010 financial crisis and the policies adopted by the U.S. federal government (the Fed) and central bank, as well as other governments and central banks, to counteract and limit the crisis by driving interest rates to the lowest levels sustainable within the financial system and keeping them there for an extended and indeterminate period of time. The resulting low rate environment, sometimes referred to as “financial repression,” has placed lending institutions such as commercial banks in a difficult position. Almost all commercial banks are at the point of maximum margin stress and this margin stress will not likely abate unless and until central bank policies underlying financial repression abate.Any substantial increase in market rates would normally be expected to adversely impact the commercial banking sector, at least in the early stages of such a development. Bank liabilities (deposits) typically reprice much more quickly than bank assets (especially long-term fixed rate loans such as residential mortgage loans). Most banks have positioned themselves to avoid or mitigate the risk of rising rates, and would expect to eventually profit from a return to a more normal rate environment. The real risk to the banking sector from an increase in prevailing rates is the damage that such a rise might exact on the U.S. economy generally, and on the demand for loans as consumers and businesses see their financial conditions deteriorate. It is this consequential damage to the economy at large that has led the Fed and other central banks to continue with their efforts to ensure a long-term, low-rate environment through financial repression, and that presents commercial banks with the conundrum of a bad rate situation that might not improve, even if rates rise, unless any such rate increase takes place in tiny increments over a very long period of time. Accordingly, these government policies can affect the activities and results of operations of banks and bank holding companies such as Arrow. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary and other policies or the effect that they may have on our operations or financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas that could negatively affect our growth and profitability. Competition for commercial banking and other financial services is strong in our market areas. In one or more aspects of its business, our subsidiaries compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, Internet-based financial services companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking companies, and other financial intermediaries. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided # 15by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. In addition, many of our competitors are not subject to the same extensive Federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and Federally insured banks. Failure to offer competitive services in our market areas could significantly weaken our market position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Company relies on the operations of our banking subsidiaries to provide liquidity which, if limited, could impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders or to repurchase our common stock. We are a bank holding company, a separate legal entity from our subsidiaries. Our bank holding company does not have significant operations of its own. The ability of our subsidiaries, including our bank and insurance subsidiaries, to pay dividends is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of our subsidiaries and other factors, that our subsidiaries would be restricted in their ability to pay dividends to the holding company, including by a bank regulator asserting that the payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, under Dodd-Frank, we will be subjected to consolidated capital requirements. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to our holding company or if our banking subsidiaries are required to retain capital, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase shares of our common stock.If economic conditions worsen and the U.S. financial markets should suffer another downturn, we may experience limited access to credit markets. As discussed under Part I, Item 7.D. “Liquidity,” we maintain borrowing relationships with various third parties that enable us to obtain from them, on relatively short notice, overnight and longer-term funds sufficient to enable us to fulfill our obligations to customers, including deposit withdrawals. If and to the extent these third parties may themselves have difficulty in accessing their own credit markets, we may, in turn, experience a decrease in our capacity to borrow funds from them or other third parties traditionally relied upon by banks for liquidity. We are subject to the local economies where we operate, and unfavorable economic conditions in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the growth in business activity, income levels and deposits in our geographic market area. Unpredictable and unfavorable economic conditions unique to our market area may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and financial performance. As a community bank, we are less able than our larger regional competitors to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions over a larger market area. Moreover, we cannot give any assurances that we, as a single enterprise, will benefit from any unique and favorable economic conditions in our market area, even if they do occur. Changes in accounting standards may materially and negatively impact our financial statements. From time-to-time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial statements. Specifically, changes in the fair value of our financial assets could have a significant negative impact on our asset portfolios and indirectly on our capital levels. Our business could suffer if we lose key personnel unexpectedly. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our key personnel for the duration of their expected terms of service. However, back-up plans are also important, in the event key personnel are unexpectedly rendered incapable of performing or depart or resign from their positions. While our Board of Directors regularly reviews emergency staffing plans, any sudden unexpected change at the senior management level may adversely affect our business. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as Internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution. These parties are beyond our control, and any problems caused or experienced by these third parties, including their not being able to continue to provide their services to us or performing such services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and conduct our business. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties in the normal course of business, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, other commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other financial institutions. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other financial institutions on whom we rely or with whom we interact. Some of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We face continuing and growing security risks to our own information base and to information on our customers and this operational risk could have a negative effect on our business operations and financial condition. We have implemented systems of internal controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures intended to protect our business # 16operations. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. No matter how well designed or implemented our controls are, we cannot provide an absolute guarantee to protect our business operations from every type of problem in every situation. A failure or circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.Also, the computer systems and network infrastructure that we use are always vulnerable to unforeseen disruptions, including theft of confidential customer information (“identity theft”) and interruption of service as a result of fire, natural disasters, explosion, general infrastructure failure or cyber attacks. These disruptions may arise in our internally developed systems, the systems of our third-party service providers or originating from our consumer and business customers who access our systems from their own networks or digital devices to process transactions. Information security risks have increased significantly in recent years because of consumer demand to use the Internet and other electronic delivery channels to conduct financial transactions. This risk is further enhanced due to the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other disreputable parties. We regularly assess and test our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks or unauthorized access remain a priority. Accordingly, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or exposures. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. Our industry is faced with technological advances and changes on a continuing basis, and failure to adapt to these advances and changes could have a material adverse impact on our business. Technological advances and changes in the financial services industry are pervasive and constant factors. For our business to remain competitive, we must comprehend developments in new products, services and delivery systems utilizing new technology and adapt to those developments. Proper implementation of new technology can increase efficiency, decrease costs and help to meet customer demand. However, many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological advances and changes. We may not always be successful in utilizing the latest technological advances in offering our products and services or in otherwise conducting our business. Failure to identify, adapt to and implement technological advances and changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - None