ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following risk factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase any of our securities. Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions, as well as continued disruption in credit markets and government policy changes may significantly and negatively affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Economic conditions in the United States and in foreign markets in which we operate could substantially affect our sales and profitability. Economic activity in the United States and throughout much of the world has undergone a sudden, sharp economic downturn. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Some of our suppliers, customers and counterparties could face adverse liquidity issues. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce their purchases. 11 Table of Contents Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. The markets in which we operate can be cyclical, and downturns in them may adversely affect the results of our operations. Some of the markets in which we operate have been, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced downturns. A downturn in these markets could occur at any time, and in the event of a downturn, we have no way of knowing if, when and to what extent there might be a recovery. Any deterioration in any of the cyclical markets we serve could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. While Boeing and Airbus had three prior years of record orders and 2008 orders were still 70% more than the 2008 combined deliveries (resulting in a record combined backlog of 7,429 aircraft as of December 31, 2008), to the extent any significant deferrals, cancellations or reduction in demand results in decreased aircraft build rates, reduced net sales for our commercial aerospace products and could reduce our operating income. Approximately 54% of our net sales for 2008 were derived from sales to the commercial aerospace industry. Reductions in demand for commercial aircraft or a delay in deliveries could result from many factors, including a terrorist event similar to that which occurred on September 11, 2001 and any subsequent military response, changes in the propensity for the general public to travel by air, a rise in the cost of aviation fuel, a change in technology resulting in the use of alternative materials, consolidation and liquidation of airlines, availability of funding for new aircraft purchases or leases and slower macroeconomic growth. Both Boeing and Airbus have experienced various delays in their newest aircraft programs, including the Boeing 787, 747-8, A400M and the ramp-up of the Airbus A380. These delays have or could have delayed our expected growth or our effective utilization of capacity installed for such growth. Future delays in these or other major Boeing or Airbus programs could similarly impact our results. In addition, our customers continue to emphasize the need for cost reduction or other improvements in contract terms throughout the supply chain. In response to these pressures, we may be required to accept increased risk or face the prospects of margin compression on some products in the future. Where possible, we seek to offset or mitigate the impact of such pressures through productivity and performance improvements, index clauses, currency hedging and other actions. A significant decline in business with Boeing, EADS, Vestas, or other significant customers could materially impact our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. We have concentrated customers in the commercial aerospace and wind energy markets. In the commercial aerospace market, approximately 72%, and in the space and defense market, approximately 38%, of our 2008 net sales were made to Boeing and EADS (including Airbus) and their related subcontractors. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, approximately 23% and 25% of our total consolidated net sales was made to Boeing and its related subcontractors, respectively, and approximately 24% and 22% of our total consolidated net sales, respectively, was made to EADS, including Airbus and its related subcontractors. In the wind energy market, nearly 11% of our total sales (but less than 10% in 2007) were made to Vestas Wind Systems A/S. Significant changes in the demand for our customers’ end products, the share of their requirements that is awarded to us or changes in the design or materials used to construct their products could result in a significant loss of business with these customers. The loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, Boeing, EADS and Vestas or any of our 12 Table of Contents other significant customers could materially impair our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. The level of purchases by our customers is often affected by events beyond their control, including general economic conditions, demand for their products, business disruptions, disruptions in deliveries, strikes and other factors. Reductions in space and defense spending could result in a decline in our net sales. The growth in military aircraft production that has occurred in recent years may not be sustained, individual programs important to Hexcel may be cancelled, production may not continue to grow nor may the increased demand for replacement helicopter blades continue. The production of military aircraft depends upon defense budgets and the related demand for defense and related equipment. Approximately 23% of our net sales in 2008 were derived from space and defense industries. Changes to the capital expansion plans could materially impact our operating results and financial condition. The company has significantly increased its capital expenditures in recent years, including capital expenditure spending of $177.3 million in 2008, $120.6 million in 2007 and $117.9 million in 2006. During that period, major projects in progress or completed include carbon fiber lines in Salt Lake City, Utah and Spain, precursor lines in Decatur, Alabama, satellite prepreg plants in Germany and France and additional wind energy capacity in Austria and a new plant in China. In October 2007 we announced an additional $180 million carbon fiber capacity which we now expect to be completed by the end of 2010. Based on expected growth estimates, and in particular our commitment to the Airbus A350XWB, the company anticipates that it will continue a high level of capital expenditures for additional capacity for carbon fiber and other products through investing in existing and new facilities. Our capacity expansion plans could cost more than we anticipated, take longer to complete than scheduled, or fail to produce the quantity or quality of product to meet the requirements of customers. This could result in our not achieving the growth in business that our capital expenditure plans were designed to deliver, resulting in much higher manufacturing and capital expenditure costs, pressure on our capital structure and a material adverse impact on our financial statements. In addition, these capital expansions are dependent on our ability to generate cash and/or have access to financing on a timely and cost effective basis. A decrease in supply or increase in cost of raw materials could result in a material decline in our profitability. Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of raw materials, which are supplied through a sole source or a limited number of sources. We purchase large volumes of raw materials, such as epoxy and phenolic resins, aluminum foil, carbon fiber, fiberglass yarn and aramid paper, any restrictions on the supply or the increase in the cost of our raw materials could significantly reduce our profit margins. Efforts to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of these raw materials by long-term purchase agreements, productivity improvements or by passing cost increases to our customers may not be successful. We have substantial international operations subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. We believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have invested significant resources in our international operations and we intend to continue to make such investments in the future. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; · foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; · cost of compliance with international trade laws of all of the countries in which we do business, including export control laws, relating to sales and purchases of goods and equipment and transfers of technology; · tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; 13 Table of Contents · general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; · governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and · the potential difficulty in enforcing our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, and the potential for the intellectual property rights of others to affect our ability to sell product in certain markets. Any one of the above could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may influence the profitability and cash flows of our business. For example, our European operations sell some of the products they produce in U.S. dollars, yet the labor, overhead costs and portions of material costs incurred in the manufacture of those products is denominated in Euros or British pound sterling. As a result, the local currency margins of goods manufactured with costs denominated in local currency, yet sold in U.S. dollars, will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, reducing when the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro and British pound sterling. In addition, the reported U.S. dollar value of the local currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While we enter into currency exchange rate hedges from time to time to mitigate these types of fluctuations, we cannot remove all fluctuations or hedge all exposures, and our earnings are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. During the past several years, some countries in which we operate or plan to operate have been characterized by varying degrees of inflation and uneven growth rates. We currently do not have political risk insurance in the countries in which we conduct business. While we carefully consider these risks when evaluating our international operations we cannot provide assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks. We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements. Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. We have been named as a “potentially responsible party” under the U.S. Superfund law or similar state laws at several sites requiring clean up. These laws generally impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault. Under certain circumstances liability may be joint and several, resulting in one responsible party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. In connection with our Lodi, New Jersey facility, Hexcel, along with a number of other companies, has been directed by federal regulatory authorities to contribute to the assessment and restoration of a stretch of the Passaic River, a project currently estimated to cost $900 million to $2.3 billion. We have also incurred and likely will continue to incur expenses to investigate and clean up certain of our existing and former facilities. We have incurred substantial expenses for work at these sites over a number of years, and these costs, for which we believe we have adequate reserves, will continue for the foreseeable future. The ongoing operation of our manufacturing plants also entails environmental risks, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect us. In addition, we may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future or to address newly discovered information or conditions that require a response. Although most of the our properties have been the subject of environmental site assessments, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil and groundwater contamination have been identified, even at those sites where assessments have been conducted. Accordingly, we may discover previously unknown environmental conditions and the cost of remediating such conditions may be material. See “Legal Proceedings” below and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 14 Table of Contents Our forward-looking statements and projections may turn out to be inaccurate. This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “will,” and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. Such statements are based on current expectations, are inherently uncertain, and are subject to changing assumptions. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (a) the estimates and expectations based on aircraft production rates made publicly available by Boeing and Airbus, the revenues we may generate from an aircraft model or program,; (b) the impact of the possible push-out in deliveries of the Airbus and Boeing backlog and the impact of delays in new aircraft programs; (c) expectations of composite content on new commercial aircraft programs and our share of those requirements; (d) expectations of growth in revenues from space & defense applications; (e) expectations regarding growth in sales of composite materials for wind energy, recreation and other industrial applications; (f) expectations regarding working capital trends and expenditures; (g) expectations as to the level of capital expenditures and when we will complete the construction and qualification of capacity expansions; and (h) our ability to maintain and improve margins in light of the ramp-up of new facilities and the current economic environment; (i) our ability to refinance our credit facility, which expires in 2010, on acceptable terms; (j) our projections regarding the realizability of net operating loss and federal tax credit carry-forwards; and the impact of the above factors on our expectations of 2009 financial results; (k) the impact of various market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates, environmental regulations and tax codes; fluctuations in commodity prices, and fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. In addition, actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward looking statements due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to changing market conditions, increased competition, product mix, inability to achieve planned manufacturing improvements and cost reductions, and conditions in the financial markets. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic and business conditions; changes in current pricing and cost levels; changes in political, social and economic conditions and local regulations, particularly in Asia and Europe; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in aerospace delivery rates; reductions in sales to any significant customers, particularly Airbus or Boeing; changes in sales mix; changes in government defense procurement budgets; changes in military aerospace programs technology; industry capacity; competition; disruptions of established supply channels; manufacturing capacity constraints; and the availability, terms and deployment of capital. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected. In addition to other factors that affect our operating results and financial position, neither past financial performance nor our expectations should be considered reliable indicators of future performance. Investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, our stock price is subject to volatility. Any of the factors discussed above could have an adverse impact on our stock price. In addition, failure of sales or income in any quarter to meet the investment community’s expectations, as well as broader market trends, can have an adverse impact on our stock price. We do not undertake an obligation to update our forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 