ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following risk factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase any of our securities. The markets in which we operate can be cyclical, and downturns in them may adversely affect the results of our operations. Some of the markets in which we operate have been, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced downturns. We are currently in an upturn of demand in the commercial aerospace and wind energy industries. However, a downturn in these markets could occur at any time, and in the event of a downturn, we have no way of knowing if, when and to what extent there might be a recovery. Any deterioration in any of the cyclical markets we serve could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results. While Boeing and Airbus increased their production and deliveries of commercial aircraft in 2006 and have announced further increases for 2007, any reduction could result in reduced net sales for our commercial aerospace products and could reduce our profit margins. Approximately 52% of our net sales for 2006 were derived from sales to the commercial aerospace industry. Reductions in demand for commercial aircraft or a delay in deliveries could result from many factors, including a terrorist event similar to that which occurred on September 11, 2001 and any subsequent military response, changes in the propensity for the general public to travel by air, a rise in the cost of aviation fuel, consolidation and liquidation of airlines and slower macroeconomic growth. In addition, our customers continue to emphasize the need for improved yield in the use of our products and cost reduction throughout the supply chain. In response to these pressures, we reduced the price of some products in recent years and may be required to do so in the future. Where possible, we seek to offset or mitigate the impact of such price and cost reductions by productivity improvements and reductions in the costs of the materials and services we procure. A significant decline in business with Boeing, EADS, Vestas, DHB or other significant customers could materially impact our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. We have concentrated customers in the commercial aerospace, space and defense, wind energy and ballistics markets. In the commercial aerospace market, approximately 69%, and in the space and defense market, approximately 50%, of our 2006 net sales were made to Boeing and EADS (including Airbus) and their related subcontractors. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, approximately 21% and 19% of our total net sales, respectively, was made to Boeing and its related subcontractors, and approximately 23% and 22% of our total net sales, respectively, was made to EADS, including Airbus and its related subcontractors. In the wind energy market, a significant portion of our sales in 2006 and 2005 was made to Vestas. In the ballistics market, a significant portion of our 2006 and 2005 sales was made to DHB Industries. Significant changes in the demand for our customers’ end products, the share of their requirements that is awarded to us or changes in the design or materials used to construct their products could result in a significant loss of business with these customers. The loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, Boeing, EADS, Vestas, DHB Industries or any of our other significant customers could materially impair our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. The level of purchases by our customers is often affected by events beyond their control, including general economic conditions, demand for their products, business disruptions, disruptions in deliveries, strikes and other factors. Reductions in space and defense spending could result in a decline in our net sales. The growth in military aircraft production that has occurred in recent years may not be sustained, production may not continue to grow nor may the increased demand for replacement helicopter blades continue. The production of military aircraft depends upon defense budgets and the related demand for defense and related equipment. Approximately 18% of our net sales in 2006 were derived from space and defense industries. In addition, a portion of our industrial market sales was attributable to ballistic reinforcement materials sold to customers manufacturing body armor. Demand for body armor increased significantly in recent years as the U.S. military forces and their allies re-equipped their personnel. This re-equipment cycle peaked in 2004, and revenues from these body armor applications declined in 2005 and 2006. Additional funding for body armor for military personnel was authorized by Congress in October 2006, providing an improved outlook for ballistics revenues in 2007 compared to 2006, but there are no assurances that this additional funding will continue in subsequent years. A decrease in supply or increase in cost of raw materials could result in a material decline in our profitability. Because we purchase large volumes of raw materials, such as epoxy and phenolic resins, aluminum foil, carbon fiber, fiberglass yarn and aramid paper and fiber, any restrictions on the supply or the increase in the cost of our raw materials could significantly reduce our profit margins. Efforts to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of these raw materials by long-term purchase agreements, productivity improvements or by passing cost increases to our customers may not be successful. Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of these raw materials, which are supplied through a limited number of sources. With increased demand for carbon fiber and constrained supply, in 2006 we have made capital expenditures to increase our manufacturing capacity, and will make further expenditures in 2007. Among these investments, we are implementing an expansion of 12 our carbon fiber manufacturing capacity to increase output by approximately 50%. We completed the addition of a precursor line at our Decatur, Alabama facility, and the addition of a carbon fiber line at our Salt Lake City, Utah facility in December 2006. These lines are expected to start supplying fiber for industrial and recreational applications in the first quarter of 2007 and to be certified to produce fibers for aerospace applications by the end of the year. We are continuing with the construction of a new carbon fiber line at Illescas, Spain which we anticipate will be completed by the end of 2007 with the line being certified to produce fibers for aerospace applications during 2008. We have substantial international operations subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. We believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have invested significant resources in our international operations and we intend to continue to make such investments in the future. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; · foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; · compliance with international trade laws of all of the countries in which we do business, including export control laws, relating to sales and purchases of goods and equipment and transfers of technology; · tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; · general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; · governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and · the potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. Any one of the above could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may influence the profitability and cash flows of our business. For example, our European operations sell some of the products they produce in U.S. dollars, yet the labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacture of those products is denominated in Euros or British pound sterling. As a result, the local currency margins of goods manufactured with costs denominated in local currency, yet sold in U.S. dollars, will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, reducing when the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro and British pound sterling. In addition, the reported U.S. dollar value of the local currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While we enter into currency exchange rate hedges from time to time to mitigate these types of fluctuations, we cannot remove all fluctuations or hedge all exposures, and our earnings are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. During the past several years, some countries in which we operate or plan to operate have been characterized by varying degrees of inflation and uneven growth rates. We currently do not have political risk insurance in the countries in which we conduct business. While we carefully consider these risks when evaluating our international operations we cannot provide assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks. We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements. Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. We have been named as a “potentially responsible party” under the U.S. Superfund law or similar state laws at several sites requiring clean up. These laws generally impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault. Under certain circumstances liability may be joint and several, resulting in one responsible party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. In connection with our Lodi, New Jersey facility, Hexcel, along with the approximately 60 other companies, has been directed by state and federal regulatory authorities to contribute to the assessment and restoration of a stretch of the Passaic River, a project currently estimated to cost $1 billion. We have also incurred and likely will continue to incur expenses to investigate and clean up our existing and former facilities. We have incurred substantial expenses for work at these sites over a number of years, and these costs, for which we believes we have adequate reserves, will 13 continue for the foreseeable future. The ongoing operation of our manufacturing plants also entails environmental risks, and we may result in our incurring material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect us. In addition, we may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future or to address newly discovered information or conditions that require a response. Although most of the our properties have been the subject of environmental site assessments, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil and groundwater contamination have been identified, even at those sites where assessments have been conducted. Accordingly, we may discover previously unknown environmental conditions and the cost of remediating such conditions may be material. See “Legal Proceedings” below and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our debt could adversely impact our operations, cash flow and strategy As of December 31, 2006, we had $412.3 million of total debt, or $386.6 million of total debt net of cash on hand. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, after taking into account letters of credit $4.3 million, we had $120.7 million of revolving loans available to be borrowed under our senior secured credit facility, or credit agreement. In 2006, we paid interest of $26.0 million on our debt. A substantial portion of our debt bears interest at floating rates, and therefore a substantial increase in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding, to satisfy our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our debt could have important consequences, including: · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and research and development, and to execute our growth strategy; · limiting, together with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and · limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation. Our debt agreements contain numerous financial and operating covenants, some of which are restrictive. These covenants may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs. Also, our senior credit facility requires that we maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. A breach of any of these restrictions or covenants could cause a default with respect to our debt, upon which a significant portion of our debt may then become immediately due and payable. Our forward-looking statements and projections may turn out to be inaccurate. This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “will,” and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. Such statements are based on current expectations, are inherently uncertain, and are subject to changing assumptions. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (a) expectations of increases in production and delivery rates of commercial aircraft by Airbus and Boeing and their impact on our commercial aerospace sales; (b) the impact of the push-out in deliveries of the Airbus A380; (c) expectations of composite content on new commercial aircraft programs and our share of those requirements; (d) expectations of growth in revenues from space & defense applications; (e) expectations regarding the U.S. military demand for body armor and its impact on the trend in our sales to ballistic applications; (f) expectations as to the availability of carbon fiber for non-aerospace applications; (g) expectations regarding growth in sales of composite materials for wind energy, recreation and other industrial applications; (h) expectations regarding our joint venture investments and loan guarantees; (i) expectations regarding working capital trends and expenditures; (j) the timing of the completion of our Washington and Livermore plant closings; (k) expectations as to the level of capital expenditures and when we will complete the construction and qualification of its carbon fiber capacity expansion; (l) expectations as to our ability to generate net cash from operations and as to the availability and sufficiency under our senior credit facilities and other financial resources to fund our worldwide operations in 2007 and beyond; (m) the execution of the previously announced strategic review and potential divestiture of our ballistics, electronics and certain general industrial product lines, the timing of potential divestitures, and the application of the net proceeds to 14 repay debt; and (n) the impact of various market risks, including fluctuations in the interest rates underlying our variable-rate debt, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, fluctuations in commodity prices, and fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic and business conditions; changes in current pricing and cost levels; changes in political, social and economic conditions and local regulations, particularly in Asia and Europe; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in aerospace delivery rates; reductions in sales to any significant customers, particularly Airbus or Boeing; changes in sales mix; changes in government defense procurement budgets; changes in military aerospace programs technology; industry capacity; competition; disruptions of established supply channels; manufacturing capacity constraints; and the availability, terms and deployment of capital. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected. In addition to other factors that affect our operating results and financial position, neither past financial performance nor our expectations should be considered reliable indicators of future performance. Investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, our stock price is subject to volatility. Any of the factors discussed above could have an adverse impact on our stock price. In addition, failure of sales or income in any quarter to meet the investment community’s expectations, as well as broader market trends, can have an adverse impact on our stock price. We do not undertake an obligation to update our forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 