ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following risk factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase any of our securities. The industries in which the Company operates are cyclical, and downturns in them may adversely affect the results of our operations. The core industries in which the Company operates are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced downturns. The Company is currently in an upturn of demand in the commercial aerospace and wind energy industries. However, a downturn in these industries could occur at any time, and in the event of a downturn, the Company has no way of knowing if, when and to what extent there might be a recovery. Any deterioration in any of the cyclical industries the Company serves could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance and operating results. While Boeing and Airbus increased their production and deliveries of commercial aircraft in 2005 and are making further increases in 2006, the demand for new commercial aircraft is cyclical and any reduction could result in reduced net sales for the Company’s commercial aerospace products and could reduce the Company’s profit margins. Approximately 46% of the Company’s net sales for 2005 was derived from sales to the commercial aerospace industry. Reductions in demand for commercial aircraft or a delay in deliveries could result from many factors, including a terrorist event similar to that which occurred on September 11, 2001 and any subsequent military response, changes in the propensity for the general public to travel by air, a rise in the cost of aviation fuel, consolidation and liquidation of airlines and slower macroeconomic growth. In addition, the Company’s customers continue to emphasize the need for improved yield in the use of the Company’s products and cost reduction throughout the commercial aerospace supply chain. In response to these pressures, the Company reduced the price of some commercial aerospace products in recent years and is likely to continue to do so in the future. Where possible, the Company seeks to offset or mitigate the impact of such price and cost reductions by productivity improvements and reductions in the costs of the materials and services the Company procures. A significant decline in business with Boeing, EADS or other significant customers could materially impair the Company’s business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. Approximately 19% of the Company’s net sales for both of the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, was made to Boeing and its related subcontractors. Approximately 22% and 21% of the Company’s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, was made to EADS, including Airbus and related subcontractors. Accordingly, the loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, either of these customers or other significant customers could materially impair the Company’s operating results and weaken our financial condition. The level of purchases by our customers is often affected by events beyond their control, including general economic conditions, demand for their products, business disruptions, disruptions in deliveries, strikes and other factors. For example, our revenues for 2005 were affected by a strike at Boeing in the third quarter of 2005 combined with Boeing’s decision not to make up the resulting delivery shortfalls in the fourth quarter of that year. Reductions in space and defense spending could result in a decline in the Company’s net sales. The growth in military aircraft production that has occurred in recent years may not be sustained, production may not continue to grow nor may the increased demand for replacement helicopter blades continue. The production of military aircraft depends upon U.S. and European defense budgets and the related demand for defense and related equipment. As evidenced by recently announced cuts in the U.S. defense budget, these budgets may decline, and sales of products used in defense and related equipment by U.S. and foreign governments may not continue at expected levels. Approximately 18% of the Company’s net sales in 2005 and 2004 was derived from space and defense industries. In addition, a portion of the Company’s industrial market application sales were ballistic reinforcement materials sold to customers manufacturing soft body armor. Demand for soft body armor increased significantly in recent years as the U.S. 14 military forces and their allies re-equipped their personnel. This re-equipment cycle appears to have peaked in 2004, and revenues from these soft body armor applications have declined in 2005 and may continue to decline in 2006. The space and defense industries are largely dependent upon government defense budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. A decrease in supply or increase in cost of the Company’s raw materials could result in a material decline in the Company’s profitability. Because the Company purchases large volumes of raw materials, such as epoxy and phenolic resins, aluminum foil, carbon fiber, fiberglass yarn and aramid paper and fiber, any restrictions on the supply or the increase in the cost of our raw materials could significantly reduce its profit margins. Efforts to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of the Company’s raw materials by long-term purchase agreements, productivity improvements or by passing cost increases to the Company’s customers may not be successful. The Company’s profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of these raw materials, which are supplied by a limited number of sources. With increased demand for carbon fiber and constrained supply, the Company has made, and will continue to make, capital expenditures to increase output from its manufacturing capacity in 2006. In addition, the Company is implementing an expansion of its carbon fiber manufacturing capacity to increase output by approximately 50% with the new capacity to come on stream in 2007 and 2008. Other carbon fiber producers have also announced plans to increase their carbon fiber manufacturing capacity. Nevertheless, constrained industry-wide supply is currently restricting the availability of carbon fiber particularly for recreational and industrial applications and could also restrict availability for aerospace applications depending on the rate of growth in commercial aircraft production and the timing of the completion of announced new capacity additions. In addition, qualification to use raw materials in some of the Company’s products limits the extent to which the Company is able to substitute alternative materials for these products. The Company’s ability to pass on these costs to its customers is, to a large extent, dependent on the terms of the Company’s contracts with the its customers and industry conditions, including the extent to which the Company’s customers would switch to alternative materials it does not produce in the event of an increase in the prices of the Company’s products. The Company’s substantial international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect its operating results. The Company believes that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of its total revenue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, the Company has invested significant resources in its international operations and the Company intends to continue to make such investments in the future. The Company’s international operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; • compliance with U.S. Department of Commerce and Foreign export controls; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in the countries where the Company operates may have an adverse effect on its operations in those countries or not be favorable to its growth strategy; • foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the Company’s business and market opportunities; and • the potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. Any one of the above could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 15 In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may influence the profitability and cash flows of the Company’s business. For example, the Company’s European operations sell some of the products they produce in U.S. dollars, yet the labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacture of those products is denominated in Euros or British pound sterling. As a result, the local currency margins of goods manufactured with costs denominated in local currency, yet sold in U.S. dollars, will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, reducing when the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro and British pound sterling. In addition, the reported U.S. dollar value of the local currency financial statements of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While the Company enters into currency exchange rate hedges from time to time to mitigate these types of fluctuations, the Company cannot remove all fluctuations or hedge all exposures, and its earnings are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. During the past several years, some countries in which the Company operates or plans to operate have been characterized by varying degrees of inflation and uneven growth rates. The Company currently does not have political risk insurance in the countries in which it conducts business. While the Company carefully considers these risks when evaluating its international operations, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will not be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks. The Company could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements. The Company’s operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. As a result, the Company is subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. The Company has made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. The Company has been named as a “potentially responsible party” under the federal Superfund law or similar state laws at several sites requiring clean up. These laws generally impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault. Under certain circumstances liability may be joint and several, resulting in one responsible party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. In connection with the Company’s Lodi, New Jersey facility, the Company, along with the approximately 60 other companies, has been directed by state and federal regulatory authorities to contribute to the assessment and restoration of a stretch of the Passaic River, a project currently estimated to cost $1 billion. Although the Company is vigorously contesting its involvement with this project on scientific and legal grounds, the Company may ultimately be required to assume a share of the liability. The Company has also incurred and likely will continue to incur expenses to investigate and clean up its existing and former facilities. The Company has incurred substantial expenses for its work at these sites over a number of years, and these costs, for which it believes it has adequate reserves, will continue for the foreseeable future. The ongoing operation of the Company’s manufacturing plants also entails environmental risks, and the Company may incur material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect it. In addition, the Company may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future or to address newly discovered information or conditions that require a response. Although most of the Company’s properties have been the subject of environmental site assessments, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil and groundwater contamination have been identified, even at those sites where assessments have been conducted. Accordingly, the Company may discover previously unknown environmental conditions and the cost of remediating such conditions may be material. See “Legal Proceedings” below and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The interests of the Company’s significant stockholders may be different than your interests. The Goldman Sachs investors own approximately 15.2% of the Company’s common stock and the Berkshire/Greenbriar investors own approximately 10.2% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Under the 16 Company’s governance agreement with the Goldman Sachs investors, the Goldman Sachs investors are entitled to designate two nominees for election to our ten-member Board of Directors and one director to serve on each committee of our Board of Directors. Under the stockholders agreement with the Berkshire/Greenbriar investors, the Berkshire/Greenbriar investors are entitled to designate one nominee for election to the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, the governance agreement provides that the Company’s Board of Directors will not authorize specified types of significant transactions without the approval of a majority of the directors nominated by the Goldman Sachs investors. The interests of the Goldman Sachs investors and the Berkshire/Greenbriar investors may be different than your interests. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,” incorporated by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, for a more detailed description of the governance agreement and the stockholders agreement. On February 28, 2006, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-3 for the sale by the Berkshire/Greenbriar investors and Goldman Sachs investors of substantially all of their shares of Hexcel common stock. This registration statement was filed pursuant to existing registration rights held by the Berkshire/Greenbriar investors and Goldman Sachs investors. If this offering is consummated, the governance agreement and stockholders agreements with the investors will terminate, and the investors will no longer have board representation rights. For additional information, see Note 24 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company has substantial debt that could limit its ability to satisfy its debt obligations and reduce the effectiveness of its operations. The Company has substantial debt and debt service requirements. The Company cannot assure you that it will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that it will be able to obtain sufficient funding, to satisfy its debt service obligations. The Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on its debt obligations will depend on its future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $419.8 million of total debt, or $398.8 million of total debt, net of cash on hand. This substantial level of debt has important consequences, including: • placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; • limiting the Company’s ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of its growth strategy and research and technology costs; • limiting the Company’s ability to use operating cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other areas of its business; • increasing the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limiting the Company’s ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants that are contained in the Company’s existing debt agreements may impair its ability to finance future operations or capital needs. Also, the Company’s senior credit facility requires that it maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. A breach of any of these restrictions or covenants could cause a default with respect to the Company’s debt, upon which, a significant portion of the Company’s debt may then become immediately due and payable. Our forward-looking statements and projections may turn out to be inaccurate. This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to future prospects, developments 17 and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “will,” and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. Such statements are based on current expectations, are inherently uncertain, and are subject to changing assumptions. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (a) expectations of increases in production and delivery rates commercial aircraft by Airbus and Boeing; (b) expectations of composite content on new commercial aircraft programs; (c) expectations regarding the growth in the production of military aircraft and helicopters in 2006 and beyond and the trend in funding for military aircraft programs; (d) expectations regarding future business trends in the electronics fabrics industry; (e) expectations regarding the demand for soft body armor made of aramid and specialty fabrics; (f) expectations regarding growth in sales of composite materials for wind energy, recreation and other industrial applications; (g) expectations as to the availability of carbon fibers; (h) expectations as to joint venture loan guarantees and the dissolution of DHL; (i) expectations regarding working capital trends and capital expenditures; (j) the availability and sufficiency under the Company’s senior credit facilities and other financial resources to fund the Company’s worldwide operations in 2006 and beyond; and (k) the impact of various market risks, including fluctuations in the interest rates underlying the Company’s variable-rate debt, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, fluctuations in commodity prices, and fluctuations in the market price of the Company’s common stock. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic and business conditions; changes in current pricing and cost levels; changes in political, social and economic conditions and local regulations, particularly in Asia and Europe; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in aerospace delivery rates; reductions in sales to any significant customers, particularly Airbus or Boeing; changes in sales mix; changes in government defense procurement budgets; changes in military aerospace programs technology; industry capacity; competition; disruptions of established supply channels; manufacturing capacity constraints; and the availability, terms and deployment of capital. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected. In addition to other factors that affect Hexcel’s operating results and financial position, neither past financial performance nor the Company’s expectations should be considered reliable indicators of future performance. Investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, the Company’s stock price is subject to volatility. Any of the factors discussed above could have an adverse impact on the Company’s stock price. In addition, failure of sales or income in any quarter to meet the investment community’s expectations, as well as broader market trends, can have an adverse impact on the Company’s stock price. The Company does not undertake an obligation to update its forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 