ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risks, among others, sometimes may have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company and its subsidiaries’ business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company and its subsidiaries. Additional risks not discussed or not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems insignificant may also impact its business, brand and stock price. The Company and its subsidiaries are dependent on key personnel. The Company and its subsidiaries rely on the efforts of its executives and professional staff. Its future success relies upon its ability to retain and recruit qualified professionals and executives. While the Company has back-up staff for most positions it is never-the-less possible that the loss of the services of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company because it could jeopardize its performance. If the Company does not maintain subscription revenue, its operating results could suffer. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenue is generated from subscriptions including print and electronic. VLP’s trial and full term subscriptions are typically paid in advance by subscribers. Unearned revenues are accounted for on the balance sheet of the Company. The backlog of orders is primarily generated through renewals and new subscription marketing efforts as the Company deems appropriate. Future results will depend on the renewal of existing subscribers and obtaining new subscriptions for the investment publications. The availability of free or low cost information on the Internet could negatively impact demand for VLP’s publications or impact its pricing. Licensing agreements are based on market interest in the respective proprietary information. If the sales of the Company’s publications or royalties from proprietary information decline, its operating results could suffer. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information could harm the Company’s ability to compete effectively and could negatively affect operating results. The Company’s trademarks and tradename protection are important assets to the Company. Although our trademarks are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries, we may not always be successful in asserting global trademark or tradename protection. In the event that other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights and we are not successful in defending our intellectual property rights, the result may be a dilution in the value of the Company’s brands in the marketplace. If the value of our brands becomes diluted, or if competitors introduce brands that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, it could adversely affect the value that our customers associate with our brands, and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of Company resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we may not be able successfully to resolve such claims. 11 Adverse changes in market and economic conditions could lower demand for the Company’s products and services. The Company provides its products and services to individual investors, financial advisors, and institutional clients. Adverse conditions in the financial and securities markets may have an impact on the Company’s investment management revenues, securities income, subscriptions, and licensing services which could cause material changes in the Company’s operating results. The Company’s assets under management, which impact revenue, are subject to fluctuations based on market conditions and individual fund performance. Financial market declines and/or adverse changes in interest rates would generally negatively impact the level of the Company’s assets under management and consequently its revenue and net income. Major sources of investment management revenue for the Company (i.e., investment management and service and distribution fees) are calculated as percentages of assets under management. A decline in securities prices or in the sale of investment products or an increase in fund redemptions would reduce fee income. A recession or other economic or political events could also adversely impact the Company’s revenue if it led to a decreased demand for products, a higher redemption rate, or a decline in securities prices. Good performance of managed assets relative to both competing products and benchmark indices generally assists retention and growth of assets, resulting in additional revenues. Conversely, poor performance of managed assets relative to both competing products and benchmark indices tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in revenues to the Company. Poor performance could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company derives almost all of its investment management fees from the Value Line Funds. The Company is dependent upon management contracts and service and distribution contracts with the Value Line Funds under which these fees are paid. As required in the mutual fund industry, the Board of Directors of the Value Line Funds, a majority of whom are independent of the Company, may elect to terminate such contracts. If any of these contracts are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, the Company’s financial results may be adversely affected. The Company is in the highly competitive fields of publishing and investment management. The Company competes with a large number of domestic and foreign investment management firms, broker-dealers and investment publishing firms offering competing products and services. Many of its competitors have greater resources and assets under management. The absence of significant barriers to entry by new investment management firms in the mutual fund industry increases competitive pressure. Entry barriers in publishing investment periodicals have been reduced by the minimal cost structure of the Internet and other technologies. Competition is based on various factors, including business reputation, investment performance, quality of service, marketing, distribution services offered, the range of products offered and fees charged. Since the Company is smaller than other companies in some of its product segments, adverse business developments may have an impact on the Company’s operating results. Government regulations, any changes to government regulations, and regulatory proceedings and litigation may adversely impact the business of the Company. Changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance requirements could have an effect on the Company’s operations and results, including but not limited to increased expenses and restraints on marketing certain funds and other investment products offered by the Company. Value Line, Inc. is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary, record keeping, operational and disclosure obligations. VLS is registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Each Value Line Fund is a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This Act requires numerous compliance measures, which must be observed, and involves regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. As well, each fund and its shareholders may face adverse tax consequences if the Value Line Funds are unable to maintain qualification as registered investment companies under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Those laws and regulations generally grant broad administrative powers to regulatory agencies and bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. If these agencies and bodies believe that the Company and its subsidiaries or the Value Line Funds have failed to comply with these laws and regulations, these agencies and bodies have the power to impose sanctions. The Company and the Value Line Funds, like other companies, can also face lawsuits by private parties and the Company along with its directors and officers have been sued from time to time. Regulatory proceedings and lawsuits are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policies, and the costs associated with compliance, could adversely affect the business and operations of the Company and the Value Line Funds. An adverse resolution of any regulatory proceeding or lawsuit against the Company, its directors, officers, or its subsidiaries could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to the Company and its subsidiaries or to the Value Line Funds and have a material adverse effect on the business and operations of the Company or the Value Line Funds. 12 Terrorist attacks could adversely affect the Company. A terrorist attack, including biological or chemical weapons attacks, and the response to such terrorist attacks, could have a significant impact on the New York City area, the local economy, the United States economy, the global economy, and U.S. and/or global financial markets and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Item 