Item 1A. Risk Factors. Making or continuing an investment in common stock issued by Bancshares involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on Bancshares. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of your common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause Bancshares’ actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Bancshares. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry in which we operate. The capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption. Continuing distressed conditions in the housing market, with depressed home prices and increased foreclosures, unemployment and 8 Table of Contents under-employment, have negatively impacted the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institution industry. In particular, we face the following risks related to these conditions: • There is increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Market developments and the resulting economic pressure on consumers may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause decreases in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us and increases in delinquencies and default rates, which, among other effects, could affect our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • The current market disruptions make valuation even more difficult and subjective, and our ability to measure the fair value of our assets could be adversely affected. If we determine that a significant portion of our assets have values that are significantly below their recorded carrying value, we could recognize a material charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination was made, and our capital ratios would be adversely affected. Any litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, inquiries or changes could have a significant impact on Bancshares and the Bank. The financial services industry has experienced unprecedented market value declines caused primarily by the continuing difficult economic conditions and real estate market deterioration. As a result of the economic conditions, litigation, proceedings, inquiries or regulatory changes are all distinct possibilities for financial institutions. Such actions or changes could result in significant costs. The banking industry is highly competitive, which could result in loss of market share and adversely affect our business. We encounter strong competition in making loans, acquiring deposits and attracting customers for investment services. We compete with other commercial banks, online banks, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment banking companies, brokerage firms and other financial intermediaries operating in Alabama and elsewhere. Many of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with large bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally-insured banks. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is extensively supervised and regulated. We are subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Alabama State Banking Department, as well as the Securities and Exchange Commission. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry 9 Table of Contents on our business activities. We are subject to various federal and state laws, and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. Noncompliance with certain of these regulations may impact our business plans or planned business strategies. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis, such as that occurring in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the legislation are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. Additionally, on August 30, 2012, the federal banking regulatory agencies issued proposed rules that would implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. If adopted as proposed, Basel III and regulations proposed by the federal banking regulatory agencies will require bank holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards. Compliance with these rules, if and when they become effective, will impose additional costs on banking entities and their holding companies. For additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, see “Supervision and Regulation.” We are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect the reported financial statements or our results of operations and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us. Many banking regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance funds and are not intended to protect shareholders. Governmental responses to recent market disruptions may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have taken a number of steps to stabilize the financial markets. These steps include the enactment and partial implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the provision of other direct and indirect assistance to financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and expansion of deposit insurance coverage. The administration and Congress have pursued additional initiatives in an effort to stimulate the economy and stabilize the financial markets, including the enactment of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and have altered the terms of some previously announced policies. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize the financial markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will likely result in significant changes to the banking industry as a whole, which, depending on how its provisions are implemented by the agencies, could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the Company competes with a number of financial services companies that are not subject to the same degree of regulatory oversight to which the Company is subject. The impact of the existing regulatory framework and any future changes to it could negatively affect the Company’s ability to compete with these institutions, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and prospects. 10 Table of Contents The ultimate effect of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau established by the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet known. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau established by the Dodd-Frank Act has extensive powers that could affect many areas of the Bank’s business and, depending on what changes are implemented by the bureau, could adversely affect the Company’s business. Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates and changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. These differences could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates may have a material adverse impact on our profitability. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. The potential effect of these factors is heightened due to the current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Bancshares are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations in the Middle East and the current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the U.S. government and other governments in responding to such conditions may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. 11 Table of Contents Changes in accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies are fundamental to the understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements by affecting the value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, and because materially different amounts may be reported if different estimates or assumptions were used. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the financial statements are incorrect, we could experience material losses. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of such standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, it is possible that we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements in material amounts. If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of individuals and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential loan losses based on a number of factors. We believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated. Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank and its subsidiaries in the states of Alabama and Mississippi. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the southeastern United States in general or any one or more of these local markets could negatively impact the financial results of our banking operations and have a negative effect on its profitability. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to shareholders in the future. Dividends from the Bank are Bancshares’ primary source of funds for the payment of dividends to our shareholders, and there are various legal and regulatory limits regarding the extent to which the Bank may pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to Bancshares. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of the Bank and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than the legal and regulatory requirements with respect to our payment of dividends to shareholders. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends to our shareholders. 12 Table of Contents Extreme weather could cause a disruption in our operations which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations. Some of our operations are located in areas in close proximity to the Gulf of Mexico, a region that is susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events could cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. Our ability to adequately conduct and grow our business is dependent on our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways including employee fraud, customer fraud and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees and automated systems, including the automated systems used by acquired entities and third parties, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or tampering of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are also subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. Failure to maintain an appropriate operational infrastructure can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions and noncompliance with various laws and regulations. We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe that it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or by new third party providers of such platforms into their existing businesses. An interruption or breach in our information systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our business, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. Our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions on a daily basis and to securely process, store and transmit confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. We rely heavily on our information and communications systems and those of third parties who provide critical components of our information and communications infrastructure. These systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other information systems and facilities, or those of third parties on whom we rely, may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber-attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process transactions or provide services. 13 Table of Contents Although we make continuous efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have not experienced a cyber-attack, threats to information systems continue to evolve, and there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will continue to be effective. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Threats to our information systems may originate externally from third parties, such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally. As a financial institution, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from attempts to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ data and financial information, whether through cyber-attack, cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, spoofing, phishing or spyware. As a result, our information, communications and related systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches or other significant disruptions that could: (1) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems, which could disrupt our operations and those of certain of our customers; (2) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including account numbers and other financial information; (3) result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, subjecting the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and exposing the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability; (4) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; and (5) harm our reputation or impair our customer relationships. The occurrence of such failures, disruptions or security breaches could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. To date we have not experienced an attack that has impacted the results of our operations, financial condition and cash flows. Securities issued by Bancshares, including our common stock, are not insured. Securities issued by Bancshares, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Future issuances and sales of additional shares of our common stock could result in dilution of your ownership and depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders, including you, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue such additional equity securities to raise additional capital to support growth or to fund acquisitions. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock could be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units or other stock-based awards under the Company’s incentive plans in effect from time to time, and such grants vest or are exercised, our shareholders may experience further dilution. We cannot predict the effect that future issuances and sales of our common stock could have on the market price of our common stock. Our common stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. In particular, our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • general economic and business conditions; • changing market conditions in the financial services industry; • monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations and other activities of the government, agencies and similar organizations; 14 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • failure to meet analyst predictions and projections; • collectibility of loans; • cost and other effects of legal and administrative cases and proceedings, claims, settlements and judgments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements of innovations or new services by us or our competitors; • our issuances and sales of common stock or other securities in the future; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to these factors, you may not be able to sell your stock at or above the price you paid for it, which could result in substantial losses. Our results of operations depend upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 