Item 1A. Risk Factors. Making or continuing an investment in common stock issued by Bancshares involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on Bancshares. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely 9 Table of Contents affect our business and our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of your common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause Bancshares’ actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Bancshares. The banking industry is highly competitive which could result in loss of market share and adversely affect our business. We encounter strong competition in making loans, acquiring deposits and attracting customers for investment services. We compete with other commercial banks, online banks, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment banking companies, brokerage firms, and other financial intermediaries operating in Alabama and elsewhere. Many of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with large bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally-insured banks. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws. We are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public, and the FDIC insurance funds, and are not intended to protect shareholders. Additionally, Bancshares, the Bank and other subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC and state securities and insurance regulators. We are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws, and accounting principles. Regulations affecting 10 Table of Contents banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, the Bank and other subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that any change in regulations or new laws will not adversely affect us. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, and changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. These differences could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates may have a material adverse impact on our profitability. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. 11 Table of Contents The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Bancshares are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations in the Middle East, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the U.S. government and other governments in responding to such terrorist attacks or the military operations in the Middle East may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of individuals and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. 12 Table of Contents We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential loan losses based on a number of factors. We believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated. Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank and its subsidiaries in the states of Alabama and Mississippi. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the southeastern United States in general or any one or more of these local markets could negatively impact the financial results of our banking operations and have a negative effect on its profitability. A downturn in the real estate market could harm our revenues and profitability. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of residential real estate loans. In addition, real estate is the collateral source that secures many of our loans. If the real estate market should experience a significant slowdown, it could decrease the demand for real estate loans and impact the value of loan collateral, the ability of borrowers to meet required principal and/or interest payments and, potentially, the volume of loan losses. As a result, a downturn in the real estate market could affect our financial results adversely. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to shareholders in the future. Dividends from the Bank are Bancshares’ primary source of funds for the payment of dividends to our shareholders, and there are various legal and regulatory limits regarding the extent to which the Bank may 13 Table of Contents pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to Bancshares. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of the Bank and its subsidiaries and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than the legal and regulatory requirements with respect to our payment of dividends to shareholders. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends to our shareholders. Extreme weather could cause a disruption in our operations which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations. Some of our operations are located in areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico, a region that is susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events could cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. Securities issued by Bancshares, including our common stock, are not insured. Securities issued by Bancshares, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Bank Insurance Fund, or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise capital, support growth, 14 Table of Contents or to fund acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. Our common stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. In particular, our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including but not limited to: • general economic and business conditions; • changing market conditions in the financial services industry; • monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations and other activities of the government, agencies and similar organizations; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • failure to meet analyst predictions and projections; • collectibility of loans; • cost and other effects of legal and administrative cases and proceedings, claims, settlements and judgments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements of innovations or new services by us or our competitors; • our sales of common stock or other securities in the future; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to these factors, you may not be able to sell your stock at or above the price you paid for it, which could result in substantial losses. Our results of operations depend upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. 15 Table of Contents We may uncover additional losses in our internal investigation of the irregularities at ALC, and ALC personnel turnover could adversely impact ALC’s financial performance. During the quarter ended June 30, 2007, we discovered irregularities in certain loan transactions within ALC. See “Irregularities at Acceptance Loan Company, Inc.” for a discussion of significant losses recorded at ALC during the quarter ended September 30, 2007, in Item 7 herein. Under the direction of the Audit Committee, we conducted an internal investigation regarding these irregularities, which is substantially complete. We have recorded significant losses from these irregularities, and there is no assurance that additional losses from these irregularities will not be discovered. In addition, due to the turnover in personnel that has resulted from the discovery of these irregularities at ALC, ALC could incur disruptions in its collections area until replacements for certain positions can be filled. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 