ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. Set forth below are certain risk factors which we believe to be relevant to an understanding of our business. This list should not be considered a comprehensive list of all potential risks. You should also refer to the other information included in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and our “Forward Looking Statement” for additional information. Significant risk factors include: Credit Risk. Our earnings, financial condition, and reputation may be adversely affected if we fail to manage our credit risk satisfactorily. Originating and underwriting loans is integral to the success of our business. This business requires us to take “credit risk,” which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because borrowers fail to repay their loans. Such losses or defaults may be mitigated by the existence of adequate collateral and/or our loan loss reserves or aggravated by their inadequacy. While most of our loans are secured by collateral, some are not. The capacity of borrowers to repay their debts and the value of any collateral that may be pledged to secure their obligations can be adversely affected by many factors outside our control, including local or national economic downturns, supply and demand in a specific industry or business segment, and increases in interest rates. The factors we consider in calculating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, which we describe in greater detail in the section titled “Allowance for Loan Losses,” is subject to considerable judgment by management; if our assumptions turn out to be incorrect, the result could have an adverse affect on our earnings and financial condition and financial condition. To a lesser extent, we also face credit risk in the non U.S. Government securities in the investment portfolio. We have the risk that securities’ issuers may default on their obligations and the risk that very few non 11 Table of Contents U.S. Government securities are backed by collateral. An investment default could have an adverse effect on our earnings. Interest Rate and Duration Risk. Our earnings and financial condition can be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our earnings and financial condition are highly dependent upon our “net interest income,” which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest-rate spreads between the interest we earn and the interest we pay (This narrowing is often referred to as “margin compression” or “margin pressure.”) can adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Interest rate levels themselves are highly sensitive to many national and global factors, including the rate of inflation, the rate of economic growth, employment levels, the relationship between and/or instability in domestic and foreign economies and financial markets, and government revenues and expenditures. Interest rate levels are also highly sensitive to competitive factors within our local markets. See “Geographic Risk” below. While the foregoing national, global and local factors are largely beyond our control, interest rate risk is also dependent on our asset and liability management. We currently have a mismatch, commonly called a “negative gap,” whereby our rate-sensitive liabilities (mostly deposits) substantially exceed our rate sensitive assets (mostly loans and investments) for at least the next year. This arises because more of our deposit liabilities reprice or have the potential to reprice more frequently than our loan and investment assets. See “Interest Rate Sensitive Position”. In a rising interest rate environment, such as has existed since June 2004, governmental monetary policy and competitive forces have put upward pressure on deposit rates. At the same time, longer contractual maturities on certain fixed rate loans and fixed rate investments have limited our ability to increase rates on these loans and investments. The result has been a squeeze on our net interest margin. We cannot predict when interest rate increases will cease or when margin pressure will ease. Potential profits are also affected by the shape of the “yield curve” for fixed-income securities, especially U.S. Government and Agency debt. Normally, shorter-term debt pays interest at a lower rate than longer-term debt. This phenomenon permits financial intermediaries to borrow at lower shorter-term rates (for example, by issuing one-year CDs to depositors) and investing in securities for longer terms at higher rates, thus garnering “spread” income. This sort of mismatch creates “duration risk.” The normal upward sloping yield curve has recently flattened and inverted — whereby rates on shorter-term debt equals or exceeds rates on longer-term debt. We cannot predict when the “yield curve” will return to its more normal upward slope and profit-making opportunities from borrowing short-term and lending longer-term will return. Over the last 25 years inverted yield curves have occurred only infrequently and have lasted only for relatively short periods. Geographic Risks. We operate primarily in the greater Chicago market. Increased competition in this Chicago market or any prolonged economic downturn in this Chicago market could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Although our Chicago market is extremely large, there is now excess competition in it among financial institutions and other financial service providers. The effects of this intense competition have been higher costs for deposits, lower pricing and weaker terms on loans, higher compensation needed to attract and retain bankers, and higher costs to buy branch sites and fewer attractive branch sites. In meeting these competitive challenges in the Chicago market, we have fewer financial resources than many of our most aggressive, expansion-minded competitors. We cannot predict when or if this excessive competition will subside. Regulatory Risk. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, and supervision. Among other government agencies and private regulatory bodies, we are supervised by the Federal Reserve, FDIC, State of Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, the SEC, and the National Association of Securities Dealers (at First Oak Brook Capital Markets, Inc. only). The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking and securities regulations and is likely to continue to have or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislation and regulatory changes, changes in enforcement policies, and capital adequacy standards are increasing our costs of doing business and, consequently, may result in an advantage for our less regulated competitors. Also, future regulatory changes and capital requirements could adversely affect our future results. Additionally, the agencies that regulate us have broad discretionary authority to initiate enforcement action for failure to comply with applicable regulations and laws. If 12 Table of Contents we fail to comply, we can be subject to substantial fines and significant limitations on our operations. The significant federal and state regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Regulatory Matters.” In addition to direct banking and securities regulations, we are also impacted by financial accounting standards, federal and state tax laws, and bankruptcy laws. These standards, laws and interpretations are constantly changing and evolving. The nature, extent and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, regulations and standards, or changes in or repeal of existing laws, regulations or standards, or specific actions of regulators, may have a material impact on our business or on our results. It is, however, currently impossible to predict the effect of their impact. Liquidity Risk. Effective management of balance sheet liquidity is necessary to fund growth in earning assets, to meet maturing obligations and depositors’ withdrawal requirements, and to pay shareholders’ dividends. We currently have numerous sources of liquidity including readily marketable investment securities, shorter-term loans within our loan portfolio, principal and interest cash flows from investments and loans, the ability to attract retail and public fund time deposits and to purchase brokered time deposits and access to various borrowing arrangements (such as Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago advances and the Federal Reserve discount window). If for any reason sources of liquidity such as these are cut-off when needed, there could be an adverse affect on our earnings and financial condition. See “Liquidity” for more information. Operational Risks. We rely heavily on a number of communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationships, financial accounting programs and records, deposits, trust investments, servicing or loan origination systems. In addition, we are subject to errors, customer and employee fraud, and catastrophic failures that could result from terrorism or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls, back-up systems, and disaster recovery programs to mitigate against some of these occurrences, and we maintain insurance coverage for some risks that are insurable. Should such an event occur that is not mitigated, prevented or detected by our internal controls, back-up systems, or recovery programs or is uninsured or underinsured, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or earnings. Dividend Payout Restrictions. We currently pay a quarterly cash dividend on our common shares. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors which takes into account many factors, including our profitability, capital needs, liquidity, cash flows from our subsidiaries, and applicable regulatory limitations. The federal and state regulatory framework impacting dividends generally restricts subsidiary banks’ and bank holding companys’ dividends to a formula tied to net profits, prohibits dividends from banks found to be engaging or about to engage in “unsound and unsafe” practices (which can include the payment of dividends, depending on the bank’s financial condition), and requires banks to maintain appropriate levels of capital. As a result of such factors, there can be no assurance of the amount, if any, or timing of future dividend payouts. Personnel Risk. Our success depends heavily upon the continued service of our senior bankers and our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. There is significant competition in the Chicago market among financial service providers to attract front-line bankers. Loss of key personnel and the potential difficulty and cost in promptly replacing them in this competitive environment could, for a mid-sized financial institution such as ours, negatively affect our business, profitability and financial condition. Strategic Execution Risks. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to execute our strategies, including customer retention, branch expansion, loan growth, and private banking initiatives (under the “Chicago Private Bank” brand). Our ability to execute well may be adversely affected by competitive factors, regulatory impediments, changes in interest rates, our ability to retain and attract key personnel, and access to sufficient capital resources. See “Branch Expansion” for more information. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 