Item 1A. Risk Factors. Making or continuing an investment in common stock issued by USBI involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of your common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of USBI. Difficult conditions in the financial services markets may materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of the Company. Dramatic declines in the housing market during recent years, along with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally, and a continuation of these trends could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact the Company’s charge-offs and provisions for loan and credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial services industry. The Company’s business activities have been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Over the past few years, the capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the recession from which the United States is currently emerging, business activities across a wide range of industries continue to face serious difficulties due to a lack of consumer spending and liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also significantly impeded the economic recovery. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which the Company does business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on the Company’s business: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company; • A decrease in the value of the Company’s loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; 14 Table of Contents • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Company. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Overall, for the past few years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on the Company’s business, and there can be no assurance that the economy will recover in the near term. Until conditions improve, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by external economic forces. Any litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, inquiries or changes could have a significant impact on the Company. The financial services industry has experienced unprecedented market value declines caused primarily by the current recession and real estate market deterioration. As a result of these adverse market conditions, financial institutions now face a heightened risk of litigation, proceedings, inquiries or regulatory changes. Such actions or changes could result in significant costs and thereby adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The banking industry is highly competitive, which could result in loss of market share and adversely affect our business. The Company encounters strong competition in making loans, acquiring deposits and attracting customers for investment services. The Company competes with commercial banks, online banks, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment banking companies, brokerage firms and other financial intermediaries operating in Alabama and elsewhere in various segments of the financial services market. Many of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with large bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits. In addition, many of the Company’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally-insured banks, and, as a result, may be able to offer certain products and services at a lower cost than the Company is able to offer, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company is subject to extensive governmental regulation, and the costs of complying with such regulation could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations. The financial services industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws. We are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Alabama State Banking Department. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance funds and are not intended to protect shareholders. Additionally, the Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and state securities and insurance regulators. The Company is subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that could affect the Company. The Company cannot assure you that any changes in regulations or new laws will not adversely the Company’s performance or results of operations. The Company’s regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under “Item 1. Business – Supervision and Regulation.” Governmental responses to recent market disruptions may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have taken a number of steps to stabilize the financial markets. In recent years, these measures have included the enactment and implementation 15 Table of Contents of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the provision of direct and indirect assistance to financial institutions, assistance by the banking regulatory authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets, and the expansion of deposit insurance coverage. More recently, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which provides for sweeping changes to financial sector regulation and oversight, including new substantive authorities and practices in government regulation and supervision, and a restructuring of the regulatory system, including the creation of new federal agencies, offices, and councils. Although many of these legislative measures and regulatory efforts have been in place for several years, their aggregate effect on the financial markets remains uncertain. Implementation of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act through rulemaking by federal regulatory authorities has resulted in a continuous series of significant changes to the banking industry as a whole, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the Company competes with a number of financial services companies that are not subject to the same degree of regulatory oversight to which the Company is subject. The impact of the existing regulatory framework and any future changes to it could negatively affect the Company’s ability to compete with these institutions, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and prospects. Changes to the deposit insurance assessment regime could increase the cost to the Bank of holding deposits and thereby adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the method of calculation for FDIC insurance assessments. Under the previous system, the assessment base was domestic deposits minus certain allowable exclusions, such as pass-through reserve balances. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, assessments for any calculation period are based on the depository institution’s average consolidated total assets, less its average amount of tangible equity, during that period. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule to implement these changes. In addition to changing the assessment base, the final rule defines and limits certain assessment adjustments, such as those based on unsecured debt or brokered deposits. It also creates a new base assessment rate schedule in an attempt to provide more predictable assessment rates to insured financial institutions while collecting approximately the same amount of revenue as under the old rate schedule. The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments, and any significant increase in insurance assessments would likely have an adverse effect on the Bank and thereby negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The cost of complying with the regulations and policies of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, a new regulatory entity with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has extensive rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to banks and other types of lenders, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. It also has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, like the Bank, are examined for compliance with consumer laws by their primary bank regulators, but these regulators defer to the CFPB’s rules and interpretations in evaluating a bank’s compliance with consumer protection laws. Therefore, although the CFPB does not directly supervise the Bank, the actions of the CFPB significantly impact the Bank’s operations. The CFPB has set forth numerous rules and guidance documents since its inception concerning a wide range of consumer protection laws, many of which are directly applicable to the Company’s operations. For example, the CFPB recently imposed new requirements regarding the origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans, limitations on the manner in which loan originators may be compensated, mandatory disclosures on documentation given to borrowers, and an obligation on the part of lenders to verify a borrower’s “ability to 16 Table of Contents repay” a residential mortgage loan before extending credit, among others. The CFPB likely will continue to make rules relating to consumer protection, and it is difficult to predict which products and services offered by the Company will be subject to these rules or how these rules will be implemented. However, compliance with CFPB regulations likely will result in additional operating and compliance costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect the Company’s performance. Most of the Company’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and are therefore subject to significant risks from changes in interest rates. The Company’s profitability depends to a large extent on net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of the Company’s assets and liabilities. The Company’s results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and the Company’s ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates and changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. These differences could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in the Company’s interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and the Company’s management strategies for these risks, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Company’s net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of the Company’s control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies and general economic conditions. Despite the implementation of strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The performance of the Company’s investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of the Company’s investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce gains or create losses in the Company’s investment portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect returns on, and the market value of, investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in the Company’s portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. The potential effect of these factors is heightened due to the current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company’s results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in United States government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks, the current political unrest in the Middle East and Eastern Europe and the volatile conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, the Company cannot predict future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments in responding to such conditions may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. 17 Table of Contents If loan losses are greater than anticipated, the Company’s earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The Company’s credit risk with respect to its real estate and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the creditworthiness of individuals and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans, and the credit risk with respect to its commercial and consumer loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within the local markets in which the Company operates. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for potential loan losses based on a number of factors. The Company believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if estimates, assumptions or judgments used in calculating this allowance are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. The Company’s profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where the Company’s operations or loans are concentrated. The Company’s success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank and its subsidiaries in the states of Alabama and Mississippi. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the southeastern United States in general or any one or more of these local markets could negatively impact the financial results of the Company’s banking operations and have a negative effect on profitability. For example, at present, significant unemployment in the timber industry has caused widespread economic distress in many of the areas served by the Company. A continuation of this trend or similar trends in other portions of the Company’s loan portfolio could have a significant negative effect on the profitability of the Company. Further disruptions in the residential real estate market could adversely affect the Company’s performance. Since 2008, the residential real estate market in the United States has experienced a variety of unfavorable economic conditions that have adversely affected the performance and market value of the Company’s residential construction and mortgage loans. Across the United States, delinquencies, foreclosures and losses with respect to residential construction and mortgage loans have reached historically high levels and could increase in the future. In addition, housing prices and appraisal values in many markets have not returned to pre-recession levels and are even continuing to decline in some areas. An extended period of flat or declining housing values could result in additional increases in delinquencies and further losses on residential construction and mortgage loans. USBI cannot guarantee that it will pay dividends to shareholders in the future. Dividends from the Bank are USBI’s primary source of funds for the payment of dividends to its shareholders, and there are various legal and regulatory limits regarding the extent to which the Bank may pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to USBI. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as USBI’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of the Bank and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to USBI may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than the legal and regulatory requirements with respect to the payment of dividends to shareholders. There can be no assurance of whether or when USBI may pay dividends to its shareholders. 18 Table of Contents Extreme weather could cause a disruption in the Company’s operations, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Some of the Company’s operations are located in areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico, a region that is susceptible to hurricanes and other forms of extreme weather. Such weather events could disrupt the Company’s operations and have a material adverse effect on its overall results of operations. Further, a hurricane or other extreme weather event in any of the Company’s market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by the Company. The Company needs to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success may depend, in part, on its ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in operations. The Company faces security risks with respect to the receipt and storage of personal data about its customers and employees. A fundamental requirement for electronic commerce is the secure storage and transmission of personal information about customers and employees. Use of this information is regulated by various privacy and information security laws that are constantly changing. Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes. Although the Company has developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent transactions and other security breaches on the Bank’s website and otherwise, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches, or to discover such fraud or breaches that may go undetected for an extended period of time, may adversely affect the Company’s business or results of operations, damage its reputation or subject it to legal or regulatory risk. Securities issued by USBI, including its common stock, are not insured. Securities issued by USBI, including its common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the DIF maintained by the FDIC or by any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of your ownership. USBI may decide from time to time to issue additional securities in order to raise capital, support growth or fund acquisitions. Further, USBI may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate employees. Such issuances of securities by USBI would dilute the respective ownership interests of USBI shareholders. USBI’s common stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The market price of USBI’s common stock has been volatile and likely will continue to be volatile. In particular, USBI’s common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • general economic and business conditions; • changing market conditions in the financial services industry; • monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations and other activities of the government, agencies and similar organizations; 19 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • failure to meet analyst predictions and projections; • collectability of loans; • cost and other effects of legal and administrative cases and proceedings, claims, settlements and judgments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements of innovations or new services by the Company or its competitors; • USBI’s future sales of common stock or other securities; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Due to these factors, you may not be able to sell your stock at or above the price you paid for it, which could result in substantial losses. USBI’s results of operations depend upon the results of operations of its subsidiaries. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of USBI’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to USBI. In addition, USBI’s right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of its subsidiaries upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary. The Company’s performance and results of operations depend in part upon the soundness of other financial institutions. The Company’s ability to engage in routine investment and banking transactions, as well as the quality and value of the Company’s investments in equity securities and obligations of other financial institutions, could be adversely affected by the actions, financial condition and profitability of such other financial institutions with which the Company transacts, including, without limitation, the FHLBA and the Bank’s correspondent banks. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of shared credits, trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor or counterparty confidence in certain institutions and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions, and in some cases, failure of such institutions. Any losses, defaults by, or failures of, the institutions with whom the Company transacts could adversely affect the Company’s debt and equity holdings in such other institutions, the Bank’s participation interests in loans originated by other institutions, and the Company’s business, including its liquidity, financial condition and earnings. Liquidity risks could affect the Company’s operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the repayment or sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s funding sources include federal funds, purchased securities sold under repurchase agreements, core and non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. The Company maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to the Company or the Bank should they be needed, including the ability to acquire additional non-core deposits. USBI may be able, depending upon market conditions, to issue and sell debt securities, and preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize the Company’s activities or on acceptable terms could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as further disruption in the financial markets, negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry, continued 20 Table of Contents deterioration in credit markets, or the financial condition, liquidity or profitability of the financial institutions with which the Company transacts. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team and board of directors, and the unexpected loss of key officers or directors may adversely affect the Company’s operations. A departure of any of the Company’s executive officers, other key personnel, or directors could adversely affect the Company’s operations. With the exception of James F. House’s Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement and Thomas S. Elley’s Change in Control Agreement, the Company does not have employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of its executive officers. In the absence of these types of agreements, the Company’s executive officers are free to resign their employment at any time and accept an offer of employment from another company, including a competitor. Additionally, the community involvement of the Company’s executive officers and directors and the Company’s directors’ diverse and extensive local business relationships are important to the Company’s success. A material change in the composition of the Company’s management team or board of directors could cause the Company’s business to suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 