Item 1A. Risk Factors. Making or continuing an investment in common stock issued by Bancshares involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on Bancshares. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of your common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause Bancshares’ actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Bancshares. 7 Table of Contents Difficult conditions in the financial services markets may materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of Bancshares and the Bank. Dramatic declines in the housing market during recent years, along with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan and credit losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Over the past few years, the capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the recession in which the United States now finds itself, business activities across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Overall, over the past few years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect that our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings, inquiries or changes could have a significant impact on Bancshares and the Bank. The financial services industry has experienced unprecedented market value declines caused primarily by the current U.S. recession and real estate market deterioration. As a result of the current market conditions, litigation, proceedings, inquiries or regulatory changes are all distinct possibilities for financial institutions. Such actions or changes could result in significant costs. 8 Table of Contents The banking industry is highly competitive, which could result in loss of market share and adversely affect our business. We encounter strong competition in making loans, acquiring deposits and attracting customers for investment services. We compete with other commercial banks, online banks, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment banking companies, brokerage firms and other financial intermediaries operating in Alabama and elsewhere. Many of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with large bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally-insured banks. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state laws. We are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Superintendent of Banks of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance funds and are not intended to protect shareholders. Additionally, Bancshares, the Bank and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and state securities and insurance regulators. We are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, the Bank and its subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that any change in regulations or new laws will not adversely affect us. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under “Item 1. Business – Supervision and Regulation.” Governmental responses to recent market disruptions may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have taken a number of steps to stabilize the financial markets. These steps include the enactment and partial implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the provision of other direct and indirect assistance to financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and expansion of deposit insurance coverage. The new administration and Congress have pursued additional initiatives in an effort to stimulate the economy and stabilize the financial markets, including the enactment of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and have altered the terms of some previously announced policies. More recently, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which provides for sweeping changes to financial sector regulation and oversight, including new substantive authorities and practices in government regulation and supervision, and a restructuring of the regulatory system, including the creation of new federal agencies, offices, and councils. See “Recent Developments” under “Item 1. Business – Supervision and Regulation.” The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize the financial markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will likely result in significant changes to the banking industry as a whole, which, depending on how its provisions are implemented by the agencies, could adversely affect the Company’s business. 9 Table of Contents In addition, the Company competes with a number of financial services companies that are not subject to the same degree of regulatory oversight to which the Company is subject. The impact of the existing regulatory framework and any future changes to it could negatively affect the Company’s ability to compete with these institutions, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and prospects. The ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on FDIC insurance assessments is not yet known. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the method of calculation for FDIC insurance assessments. Under the previous system, the assessment base was domestic deposits minus a few allowable exclusions, such as pass-through reserve balances. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, assessments are to be calculated based on the depository institution’s average consolidated total assets, less its average amount of tangible equity. On November 9, 2010, the FDIC published proposed regulations seeking to implement these changes. In addition to providing for the required change in assessment base, the FDIC has proposed to modify or eliminate the assessment adjustments based on unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits; to add a new adjustment for holding unsecured debt issued by another insured depository institution; and to lower the initial base assessment rate schedule in order to collect approximately the same amount of revenue under the new base as under the old base, among other changes. These proposed changes may or may not ultimately be included in the FDIC’s final regulations implementing this provision of the Dodd-Frank Act. The ultimate effect of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection established by the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet known. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection established by the Dodd-Frank Act has extensive powers that could affect many areas of the Bank’s business and, depending on what changes are implemented by the bureau, could adversely affect the Company’s business. Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates and changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. These differences could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates may have a material adverse impact on our profitability. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as 10 Table of Contents mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. The potential effect of these factors is heightened due to the current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations of Bancshares are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations in the Middle East and the current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the U.S. government and other governments in responding to such conditions may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of individuals and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential loan losses based on a number of factors. We believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated. Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank and its subsidiaries in the states of Alabama and Mississippi. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the southeastern United States in general or any one or more of these local markets could negatively impact the financial results of our banking operations and have a negative effect on its profitability. For example, at the current time, significant unemployment in the timber industry is causing widespread economic effects in many of the areas served by the Bank, which could have a direct negative effect on the profitability of the Bank. Further disruptions in the residential real estate market could adversely affect our performance. Since 2008, the residential real estate market in the United States has experienced a variety of worsening economic conditions that have adversely affected the performance and market value of our residential construction and mortgage loans. Across the United States, delinquencies, foreclosures and losses with respect to residential construction and mortgage loans generally have increased and may continue to increase. In addition, 11 Table of Contents housing prices and appraisal values in most markets have declined or stopped appreciating. An extended period of flat or declining housing values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and further losses on residential construction and mortgage loans. Bancshares experienced material losses during 2011 caused by deteriorating real estate collateral values. There can be no assurance of whether or when these conditions will improve or to what extent they will improve. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to shareholders in the future. Dividends from the Bank are Bancshares’ primary source of funds for the payment of dividends to our shareholders, and there are various legal and regulatory limits regarding the extent to which the Bank may pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to Bancshares. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of the Bank and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than the legal and regulatory requirements with respect to our payment of dividends to shareholders. Bancshares has not paid a dividend to our shareholders since the first quarter of 2011 due to substantial net losses at the Bank, and there can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends to our shareholders in the future. Extreme weather could cause a disruption in our operations which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations. Some of our operations are located in areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico, a region that is susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events could cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. Further, a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. The Company faces security risks with respect to the receipt and storage of personal data about our customers and employees. A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure storage and transmission of personal information about our customers and employees. Our use of this information is regulated by various privacy and information security laws that are constantly changing. Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent transactions and other security breaches on our website and otherwise, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches, or to discover such fraud or breaches that may go undetected for an extended period of time, may adversely affect our business or results of operations, damage our reputation or subject us to legal risk. Securities issued by Bancshares, including our common stock, are not insured. Securities issued by Bancshares, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Bank Insurance Fund or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. 12 Table of Contents Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of your ownership. We may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise capital, support growth or to fund acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. Our common stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. In particular, our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • general economic and business conditions; • changing market conditions in the financial services industry; • monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations and other activities of the government, agencies and similar organizations; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • failure to meet analyst predictions and projections; • collectibility of loans; • cost and other effects of legal and administrative cases and proceedings, claims, settlements and judgments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements of innovations or new services by us or our competitors; • our sales of common stock or other securities in the future; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to these factors, you may not be able to sell your stock at or above the price you paid for it, which could result in substantial losses. Our results of operations depend upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us. In addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 