D. Risk factors Mining Risks The Company’s mineral exploration and mining operations involve significant risks, including the difficult nature of establishing the existence of economic mineralization, significant up-front capital - 6 - requirements, variability in deposits, and others that may restrict the Company’s ability to receive an adequate return on its capital in the future. The exploration and development of mineral deposits involves significant financial and other risks over an extended period of time, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience, and knowledge may not eliminate. Few mining properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenses are required to establish reserves by drilling and to construct mining and processing facilities. Large amounts of capital are frequently required to purchase necessary equipment. Delays due to equipment malfunction or inadequacy affect the Company’s results of operations. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration programs on properties in which the Company has an interest will result in profitable commercial mining operations. Whether a copper and gold deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including the particular attributes of the deposit, such as its size and grade, costs and efficiencies of the recovery methods that can be employed, proximity to infrastructure, financing costs and governmental regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, infrastructure, land use, importing and exporting of copper and gold, and environmental protection. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted but the combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on its invested capital. The operations of the Company are subject to the hazards and risks normally incident to exploration, development, and productions of copper and gold, any of which could result in damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for such damage. The activities of the Company may be subject to prolonged disruptions due to weather conditions depending on the location of operations in which the Company has interests. Hazards, such as unusual or unexpected formations, faults and other geological structures, rock bursts, pressures, cave-ins, flooding, or other conditions may be encountered in the exploration, mining, and removal of material. Changes to the extensive regulatory and environmental rules and regulations to which the Company is subject could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future operations. The Company is subject to risks related to environmental liability, including liability for environmental damages caused by mining activities prior to ownership by the Company. Mining like many other extractive natural resource industries, is subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration and production. The payment of such liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Should the Company be unable to fund fully the cost of remedying any environmental problem, the Company might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy, which could have a material adverse effect on the operations and business of the Company. The Company’s operations could be adversely affected by changes in mining laws related to royalties, net profit payments, land and mineral ownership and similar matters. Mining, processing, development, and exploration activities depend, to one degree or another, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, bridges, power sources, and water supply are important determinants which affect capital and operating costs. Lack of such infrastructure or unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, sabotage, terrorism, government, or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The reserve and resource figures of the Company are only estimates and are subject to revision based on developing information. A significant reduction in these reserves and resources or in their estimates could - 7 - negatively affect the price of the Company’s stock. The figures for reserves and resources presented herein, including the anticipated tonnages and grades that will be achieved or the indicated level of recovery that will be realized, are estimates. Such estimates are materially dependent on prevailing copper and gold prices and on costs of recovering and processing mineral at the individual mine sites. Market fluctuations in the price of copper and gold or increases in the costs to recover copper and gold at the Company’s mines may render the mining of ore reserves uneconomical and materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Moreover, various short-term operating factors may cause a mining operation to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of mineral reserves and resources. The estimates in this Report are based on various assumptions relating to copper and gold prices and exchange rates during the expected life of production, mineralization of the area to be mined, the projected cost of mining, and the results of additional planned development work. Actual future production rates and amounts, revenues, taxes, operating expenses, environmental and regulatory compliance expenditures, development expenditures, and recovery rates may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant change in these assumptions, including changes that result from variances between projected and actual results, could result in material downward revision to current estimates. If the Company does not develop additional mineral reserves, it may not be able to sustain future operations. Because mines have limited lives, the Company must continually replace and expand its mineral reserves as its mines produce copper and gold in order to continue its operations. The life-of-mine estimates included in the Report for each of the Company’s material properties are based on a number of factors and assumptions and may prove incorrect. The Company’s ability to maintain or increase its annual production of copper and gold will significantly depend on its ability to bring new mines into production and to expand mineral reserves at existing mines. The Company requires the issuance and renewal of licenses and permits in order to conduct its operations, and failure to receive these licenses may result in delays in development or cessation of certain operations. The operations of the Company require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities to exploit its properties, and the process for obtaining licenses and permits from governmental authorities often takes an extended period of time and is subject to numerous delays and uncertainties. Such licences and permits are subject to change in various circumstances. The Company may be unable to timely obtain or maintain in the future all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to explore and develop its properties, commence construction or operation of mining facilities and properties under exploration or development or to maintain continued operations that economically justify the cost. The success of the Company is dependent on copper and gold prices over which it has no control. The profitability of the Company’s operations is significantly affected by changes in the market price of copper and gold. Copper and gold prices fluctuate on a daily basis and are affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company. The supply and demand for copper and gold, the level of interest rates, the rate in inflation, and changes in exchange rates can all cause significant fluctuations in copper and gold prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns and monetary systems and political developments. The price of copper and gold has fluctuated widely and future serious price declines could cause continued commercial production to be impractical. Depending on the price of copper and gold, cash flow from mining operations may not be sufficient to cover costs of production and capital expenditures. If, as a result of a decline in copper and gold prices, revenues from metal sales were to fall below cash operating costs, production may be discontinued. The mineral exploration and mining business is competitive in all of its phases. The Company competes with numerous other companies and individuals, including competitors with greater financial, - 8 - technical and other resources than the Company, in the search for and the acquisition of attractive and mineral properties. The ability of the Company to operate successfully in the future will depend not only on its ability to develop its present properties, but also on its ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties of prospects for mineral explorations. The Company may be unable to compete successfully with its competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects on terms it considers acceptable, if at all. The Company has a history of losses, and future profitable operations cannot be assured. The Company may require additional capital that may not be available. The mining, processing, development, and exploration of the Company’s properties may require substantial additional financing. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration, development or production on any or all of the Company’s properties, or even a loss of property interest. Additional capital or other types of financing may not be available if needed or, if available, the terms of such financing may be unfavourable to the Company. The Company’s insurance may not cover the risks to which its business is exposed. The Company’s business is subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including adverse environmental conditions, industrial accidents, labor disputes, adverse property ownership claims, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, ground or slope failure, cave-ins, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods and earthquakes. Such occurrences could result in damage to mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage to the Company’s properties or the properties of others, delays in mining, monetary losses and legal liability. Available insurance does not cover all the potential risks associated with a mining company’s operations. The Company may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover insurable risks at economically feasible premiums, and insurance coverage may not be available in the future or may not be adequate to cover any resulting loss. Moreover, insurance against risks such as the validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims and mill sites and environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of exploration and production is not generally available to the Company or to other companies in the mining industry on acceptable terms. As a result, the Company might become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards for which it is uninsured or for which it elects not to insure because of premium costs of other reasons. Losses from these events may cause the Company to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Canadian and United States dollars may affect the United States dollar value of the Company common shares in ways that are different than changes in the Canadian dollar value of the Company common shares. The failure of the Company to pay royalties would adversely affect its business and operations. The Company’s mining properties are subject to various royalty and land payment agreements. Failure by the Company to meet its payment obligations under these agreements could result in the loss of related property interests. The business of the Company is dependent on good labor and employment relations. Production at the Company’s mines is dependent upon the efforts of employees of the Company and its employees may be impacted by changes in labor relations which may be introduced by, among others, employee groups, unions, and the relevant governmental authorities in whose jurisdictions the Company carries on business. Adverse changes in such legislation or in the relationship between the Company and its employees may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. - 9 - The loss of key executives could adversely affect the Company. The Company has a relatively small executive management team. In the event that the services of a number of these executives were no longer available, the Company and its business could be adversely affected. The Company does not carry key-man life insurance with respect to its executives. Shortage of supplies could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate. The Company is dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out its mining operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to carry out its operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. It may be difficult to enforce a United States judgement against the officers and directors of the Company or the experts named in the Report or to assert United States securities laws claims in Canada. Most of the executive officers and directors of the Company and its independent accountants are non residents of the United States, and all of the Company’s assets are located outside the United States. The executives and accountants reside in Canada, making it difficult or impossible to effect service upon them in the United States against the Company or such persons. Execution by United States courts of any judgment obtained against the Company or its officers or directors in United States courts would be limited to the assets of the Company or such persons, as the case may be, located in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for U.S. residents to obtain Canadian enforcement of U.S. judgment or to assert civil liabilities under United States securities laws in original actions instituted in Canada. In 2008, the Company will be dependent of four operations, the Copper Rand copper mine (the “Copper Rand Mine”), the Copper Rand mill (the “Copper Rand Mill”), the Merrill Island open pit (the “Merrill Pit”) and the Corner Bay copper project (the “Corner Bay Project”), as the source of its cash flow. The 2008 operating plan is based on a gold price of US$800 per ounce, a copper price of US$3.00 per pound and a Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of US$1.00/CAN$1.00 and anticipates cash production costs (excluding pre-production development, exploration and reclamation costs) of US$2.43 per ounce of copper for the Copper Rand Mine. The ability of the Company to achieve the cash production costs is largely based on the successful adoption of the operating assumptions and completion of the exploration and development work in the 2008 budget. Should metal prices decrease significantly or the US dollar decline significantly compared to the Canadian dollar or the cash cost be higher than projected, the ability of the mines to generate cash flow will be impaired. The Copper Rand Mine was in pre-production until the end of 2006. As a result, expected revenues generated from production at Copper Rand have been delayed and working capital was used to finance this delay. Additional investments have been required to increase the level of development and to change the mining method to include the mining method developed by Alimak AB (“Alimak Mining”) in order to add to the number of available stopes. Commencing on January 1, 2007, the mine reached commercial production and costs going forward have been carried on as operating costs. In addition, the Company signed an agreement with an effective date of January 1, 2007 with Ocean Partners UK Limited (“Ocean Partners”) for the purchase of the Company’s concentrate for a term of three (3) years ending on December 31, 2009 (the “Ocean Partners Agreement”). Following negociation with Ocean Partners to put in place additional financing from them, the contract was extended for an additional four (4) years now ending December 31, 2013. Development is underway on the Corner Bay deposit (the “Corner Bay Property”) which is the main asset of the Corner Bay Project. The extraction of the first ton of ore from the bulk sample was expected to begin in December 2007, but was delayed by the discovery of groundwater. The services of a consultant were retained to assist in implementing a grouting strategy to mitigate the groundwater issue and allow production - 10 - to begin as soon as possible. Although production has been delayed, the issue was successfully addressed and development in ore began in March 2008. The figures for mineral reserves and resources presented herein are estimates and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or the indicated level of recovery realized. In addition, no assurance can be given that the copper and gold prices on which these estimates are based can be achieved. See Item 4 headings “The Joe Mann Mine”, “The Copper Rand Mine”, “The Corner Bay Project” and sub-heading “Mineral Reserves and Resources”. As well, lead times required for underground stope preparation and development in mining operations can affect production decisions and schedules. Copper and gold prices fluctuations may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral reserves, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different ore grades may cause the Company to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. Environmental Matters Campbell holds all the permits required under the Environment Quality Act (Québec), the Mining Act (Québec) and other applicable legislation and regulations. During 1995, proposed amendments to the Mining Act (Québec) relating particularly to rehabilitation and restoration plans came into force. This legislation required that a rehabilitation and restoration plan be submitted for approval within one year of the legislation coming into force and that a financial guarantee be furnished with respect to such plan. The rehabilitation and restoration plans for the Joe Mann gold mine (the “Joe Mann Mine”) site were approved in early 2000 and a required amount of $350,000 was deposited as of December 31, 2005. The plan for the Campbell Mill site is currently under review. The appropriate method of re-mediating acid spots, which have appeared on fifty (50) hectares of previously re-vegetated tailings, is currently being reviewed. Two alternate methods are being considered which involve costs ranging from $10,000 to $30,000 per hectare. Campbell currently estimates that the maximum financial guarantee will be approximately $3,872,000 for the Campbell Mill. An amount of $808,000 was deposited as of December 31, 2006 for the purposes thereof. The asset retirement obligations total $4,249,000 for the Joe Mann Mine and the Campbell Mill sites as at December 31, 2007. Campbell, through its subsidiary MSV Restoration Inc., benefits from an environmental fund (the “Environmental Fund”) of approximately $4.3 million as at December 31, 2007 ($4.4 million in 2006 and $4.1 million in 2005) of which a $1,185,000 Canadian bond at fair value is currently held in trust by the ministère des Ressources naturelles et de la Faune (the “MRNF”) and of which the remaining $3,115,000 is currently held in a trust account managed by Computershare Trust Company of Canada (the “Trustee”). The Trustee had deposited with the MRNF the $1,185,000 financial guarantee in respect of the rehabilitation plan of the Company which was approved by the Québec mining authorities. The Environmental Fund was set aside for the restoration of the Copper Rand, Portage, Jaculet and Copper Cliff mining sites when the properties were acquired from Westminer Canada Limited (now WMC International Limited) (“Westminer”) in 1993. The asset retirement obligations for the Company regarding the Copper Rand, Portage, Jaculet and Copper Cliff mining sites total $3,028,000 as at December 31, 2007 ($2,826,000 in 2006). In the event there is a shortage of funds required to do the rehabilitation and restoration work, the shortfall will be assumed equally between the Company and the Société de développement de la Baie-James (“SDBJ”). In January 2004, the Oujibougoumou Cree initiated legal proceedings against the Company, claiming that the poor conditions of lakes in the region of Chibougamau, Québec was due to mining activities in the area. The Public Health Department, the ministère du Développement durable, de l’Environnement et des - 11 - Parcs (“MDDEP”) and the Québec Fish and Wildlife Association began to study the issue. In June 2006, the parties agreed to suspend proceedings for a period of two (2) years. It is not possible to determine either the outcome of the proceedings or the financial consequences for the Company. 