Risk Factors" regarding our dependence on a limited number of customers. The Consumer Services Division also markets and licenses Specialty Manufacturing services to segments of the health, cosmetic and personal care industries. The Specialty Manufacturing Services group was created in June 2001 to concentrate efforts of providing custom product development of functional beverages, skin care products and bath products. The scope of the various services provided by the Specialty Manufacturing Services group includes taking projects from formulation design through manufacturing, manufacturing and filling according to customer-provided formulations and specifications, filling customer-provided packaging components and assembling custom kits for customers. In December 2002, the Company acquired certain assets of the Custom Division of Creative Beauty Innovations, Inc. ("CBI"), including specialized manufacturing customer information, intellectual property, equipment and selected inventories. Under the agreement, the Company paid CBI $1.6 million, including $0.6 million for related inventory. In addition, for the five-year period ending in December 2007, the Company agreed to pay CBI a royalty in an amount equal to 9.0909% of Carrington's net sales of CBI products to CBI's transferring customers up to $6.6 million per year, and 8.5% of its net sales of CBI products to CBI's transferring customers over $6.6 million per year. The Company recorded expenses of $262,000, $271,000 and $383,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, for royalties due under the agreement. The final category of the Consumer Services Division is Finished Consumer Products. This unit markets finished products containing Manapol[R] and Hydrapol[TM] powders into domestic health and nutritional products markets through health food stores, independent retail outlets, internet marketing services at www.aloevera.com, direct consumer sales, and to the international marketplace on a non-contract, purchase order basis. DelSite Biotechnologies, Inc. ----------------------------- In 2001, the Company incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary named DelSite Biotechnologies, Inc. DelSite was formed to commercialize innovations discovered by scientists at the Company and operates independently from the Company's other businesses. DelSite is responsible for the research, development and marketing of the Company's proprietary drug delivery technologies based on GelSite[R] polymer, a new and unique complex carbohydrate, which was isolated in 1998 from Aloe vera L. DelSite commenced operations in January 2002 and is currently developing new technologies for controlled delivery of vaccines as well as bioactive protein and peptide therapeutics. GelVac[TM] nasal powder delivery technology for vaccines is DelSite's most advanced delivery platform. An avian influenza powder vaccine utilizing this technology is currently in preclinical development. DelSite's business plan is to partner with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to provide novel delivery solutions for their drugs and vaccines. Together with its collaborators and contractors, DelSite has the following capabilities: * Formulation development * Feasibility studies * Preclinical development * Clinical supply production * Product scale-up * Technology transfer In 2002, DelSite formed a strategic collaboration with Southern Research Institute, Inc. of Birmingham, Alabama, ("Southern Research") to assist in the development of an injectable drug delivery system based on the GelSite[R] polymer. Southern Research is an independent, not-for-profit center for scientific research affiliated with the University of Alabama at Birmingham. Under the three-year collaborative agreement, DelSite retains all product rights plus intellectual property rights to its existing technology as well as any discoveries made by DelSite or Southern Research, either jointly or individually, as a result of any project undertaken as part of the agreement. Southern Research will receive fees and royalties when undertaking certain specified projects on behalf of DelSite. In addition, a second five-year collaborative agreement with Southern Research was signed in April 2003. Under this agreement the two companies will jointly develop an injectable long-term delivery system for proteins and peptides. The companies will jointly own intellectual property that originates from this relationship. In January 2005, the three-year collaborative agreement was extended through January 26, 2006, and Southern Research transferred both agreements to its affiliate, Brookwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. During the past four years, DelSite has continued to advance and grow its internal development capabilities for drug delivery technologies. The Company has decided not to renew the 2002 Collaborative Agreement that expired on January 26, 2006 but will continue to work with Brookwood under the Agreement signed in April of 2003. In March 2004, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID") awarded a Small Business Innovation Research ("SBIR") Biodefense Grant to DelSite of up to $888,000 over two years, based on satisfactory progress of the project. The grant proposal has funded additional development of the GelVac[TM] intranasal powder vaccine delivery platform technology. In January 2006 DelSite applied for and received a six-month extension of time to complete the approved work under this grant. In July 2004, DelSite leased 5,773 square feet of new laboratory and office space in the Texas A&M University Research Park in College Station, Texas. DelSite also completed a 3,000 square foot expansion of its facilities in Irving, Texas. In October 2004, NIAID awarded DelSite a $6 million grant to develop an inactivated influenza nasal powder vaccine against the H5N1 strain commonly known as avian or bird flu. The grant was awarded under a biodefense and SARS product development initiative and is funding a three-year preclinical program utilizing the Company's proprietary GelVac[TM] nasal powder delivery system. DelSite completed the first of the three milestones of this program in October 2005 on schedule. Research and Development ------------------------ General ------- Carrington has developed proprietary processes for obtaining materials from Aloe vera L. The Company intends to seek approval of the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and other regulatory agencies to sell products containing materials obtained from Aloe vera L. in the United States and in foreign countries. For a more comprehensive listing of the type, indication and status of products currently under development by the Company, see "Research and Development - Summary" below. The regulatory approval process, both domestic and international, can be protracted and expensive, and there is no assurance that the Company will obtain approval to sell its products for any treatment or use (see "Governmental Regulation" below). The Company expended approximately $5,796,000, $4,737,000 and $3,660,000 on research and development in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Research activities associated with DelSite accounted for 86% of the 2005, 81% of the 2004 and 75% of the 2003 research and development expenditures. DelSite Research and Development -------------------------------- The Company believes that DelSite's products' functionality and/or pharmacological activity make them potential candidates for further development as pharmaceutical or therapeutic agents. In 2006, DelSite will continue to focus its research and development activities on its preclinical development program for an intranasal powder avian influenza vaccine as well as developing further basic research data for the use of its GelSite[R] and GelVac[TM] delivery technologies with potential pharmaceutical and vaccine partners. There is no assurance, however, that DelSite will be successful in its efforts. The Company sponsors research and development activities at Texas A&M University in association with the College of Veterinary Medicine to support research activities of the Company and its DelSite subsidiary. Pursuant to this arrangement, the Company has access to leading authorities in the life sciences, as well as facilities and equipment, to help further the Company's research programs. DelSite also has a research relationship with the University of Southern Mississippi where it sponsors research in the university's School of Polymers and High Performance Materials. In July 2004, DelSite entered into a master research agreement with the Texas A&M University System Health Science Center College of Medicine through the Texas A&M Research Foundation that allows DelSite to conduct multiple research projects in association with the Center in the areas of virology and bacteriology for vaccine delivery. DelSite is developing new platform technologies based on its proprietary GelSite[R] polymer for controlled delivery of vaccines as well as bioactive protein and peptide therapeutics. Basic research is continuing on this material, which includes both nasal and injectable delivery of therapeutic proteins and peptides and delivery of protein and particle antigens as vaccines using its proprietary GelVac[TM] intranasal powder vaccine delivery system. Selected studies have been completed through sponsored research at Texas A&M and Southern Research Institute. The technology has varied utility, but the primary focus of research is in the area of intranasal and injectable delivery of bioactive agents. Six patents covering this invention have been issued to DelSite with several patents pending. The first composition and process patent was issued in 1999. DelSite successfully completed a Phase I clinical safety study for its GelVac[TM] vaccine delivery system (without vaccine antigen) in 2005. Additional clinical trials will be required for DelSite's products, including its avian influenza H5 nasal powder vaccine. In addition, DelSite filed a drug master file ("DMF") with the FDA for mucosal applications of its GelSite[R] polymer technology in September, 2005. Human Clinical Studies ---------------------- The Company's new product programs for its operating segments do not require clinical trials for clearance or approval prior to commercial distribution. However, the Company intends to support its existing products and new products with clinical studies that will support the product claims and indications for use and thereby demonstrate the product's features and benefits. The Company initiated several such studies in 2005 and intends to initiate several such clinical studies during 2006. Research and Development Summary -------------------------------- The following table outlines the status of the products and potential indications of the Company's products developed, planned or under development. There is no assurance of successful development, completion or regulatory approval of any product not yet on the market. PRODUCTS AND POTENTIAL INDICATIONS DEVELOPED, PLANNED OR UNDER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM INDICATION STATUS ------- ------------------- ------ GelVac[TM] Nasal Powder Delivery system for vaccines Phase I Delivery System completed GelSite[R] Polymer Powder Mucosal delivery system for Preclinical therapeutics GelSite[R] Polymer Controlled release delivery Preclinical Injectable Delivery system for protein and peptide System therapeutics GelVac[TM] Avian H5 Nasal Pandemic influenza Preclinical Powder Vaccine GelVac[TM] Trivalent Nasal Seasonal influenza epidemic Preclinical Powder Vaccine PRODUCT OR POTENTIAL POTENTIAL INDICATION MARKET APPLICATIONS STATUS -------------------- ------------------- ------ Topical ------- Dressings Pressure and Vascular Ulcers Marketed Dressings Diabetic Ulcers, Surgical Wounds Marketed Cleansers Wounds Marketed Anti-fungal Cutaneous Fungal Infection Marketed Hydrocolloids Wounds Marketed Alginates Wounds Marketed Anti-infective Wounds Development Sunscreens Skin Marketed Oral ---- Human Pain Reduction Mucositis Marketed Dental Pain Reduction Aphthous Ulcers, Oral Wounds Marketed Post Extraction Oral Surgery Marketed Wounds Injectable ---------- Veterinary Adjunct for cancer Fibrosarcoma Marketed Nutraceuticals -------------- Immune Enhancing Manapol[R]/Maitake Gold 404[R] Marketed Product Immune Enhancing Manapol[R]/Calcium Enriched Clinical Product Evaluation Licensing Strategy ------------------ The Company expects that prescription pharmaceutical products containing certain defined drug substances will require a substantial degree of developmental effort and expense. Before governmental approval to market any such product is obtained, the Company may license these products for certain indications to other pharmaceutical companies in the United States or foreign countries and require such licensees to undertake the steps necessary to obtain marketing approval in a particular country or for specific indications. Similarly, the Company intends to license third parties to market products containing defined chemical entities for certain human indications when it lacks the expertise or financial resources to market such products effectively. If the Company is unable to enter into such agreements, it may undertake marketing the products itself for such indications. The Company's ability to market these products for specific indications will depend largely on its financial condition at the time and the results of related clinical trials. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to enter into any license agreements with third parties or that, if such license agreements are concluded, they will contribute to the Company's overall profits. Raw Materials and Processing ---------------------------- The principal raw material used by the Company in its operations is the leaf of the plant known as Aloe vera L. Through patented processes, the Company obtains several bulk freeze-dried extracts from the central portion of the Aloe vera L. leaf known as the gel. A basic bulk mannan, Acemannan Hydrogel[R], is used as an ingredient in certain of the Company's proprietary wound and skin care products. The Company owns a 410-acre farm in the Guanacaste province of northwest Costa Rica which currently has approximately 49 acres planted with Aloe vera L. The Company is currently performing a land reclamation project on the farm to increase productive acreage. The Company's current need for leaves exceeds the supply of harvestable leaves from the Company's farm, requiring the purchase of leaves from other sources in Costa Rica at prices comparable to the cost of acquiring leaves from the Company's farm. The Company has entered into several supply agreements with local suppliers near the Company's factory to provide leaves. From time to time the Company also imports leaves from Central and South America at prices comparable to those in the local market. The Company anticipates that the suppliers it currently uses will be able to meet all of its requirements for leaves in 2006. The Company has a 21.5% ownership interest in Aloe and Herbs International, Inc., ("Aloe & Herbs"), a Panamanian corporation formed for the purpose of establishing an Aloe vera L. farm in Costa Rica. The Company purchases leaves from Rancho Aloe, S.A., ("Rancho Aloe") a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aloe & Herbs, which has a 5,000-acre farm in close proximity to the Company's farm, at a market price per kilogram of leaves supplied. As of December 31, 2005, Rancho Aloe was providing an average of 74% of the Company's monthly requirement of leaves. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further information regarding the Company's relationship with Aloe & Herbs. Manufacturing ------------- Since 1995, the Company's manufacturing facility has been located in the Company's headquarters in Irving, Texas. The Company believes that this manufacturing facility has sufficient capacity to provide for the present line of products and to accommodate new products and sales growth. Final packaging of certain of the Company's wound care products is completed by outside vendors. The Company's calcium alginates, films, hydrocolloids, foam dressings, gel sheets, tablets, capsules, and freeze-dried products are being provided by third parties. All of the Company's proprietary bulk pharmaceutical products and freeze- dried Aloe vera L. extracts are produced in its processing plant in Costa Rica. This facility has the ability to supply the bulk aloe raw materials requirements of the Company's current product lines and bulk material contracts for the foreseeable future. Certain liquid nutraceutical products which the Company provides to customers on a custom manufacturing basis are also produced at the Costa Rica facility. In addition, production of the Salicept[R] Patch has been transferred to the plant in Costa Rica to better meet anticipated market demands for the product for post-extraction wounds and aphthous ulcers. On January 21, 2005, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary in Costa Rica entered into a Manufacturing Agreement with Miradent Products of Costa Rica ("Miradent"). Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will manufacture proprietary dental products for Miradent for a period of five years. The Company recorded only marginal revenue in 2005 due to start-up production delays with the proprietary dental products. As of January 2006 the Company has entered normal production for two products. Competition ----------- DelSite and Research and Development. The biopharmaceutical field is expected to continue to undergo rapid and significant technological change. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and expertise (in areas including research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing) than the Company. This competition can be expected to become more intense as commercial applications for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products increase. Some of these companies may be better able than the Company to develop, refine, manufacture and market products which have application to the same indications as the Company is exploring. The Company understands that certain of these competitors are in the process of conducting human clinical trials of, or have filed applications with government agencies for approval to market certain products that will compete with the Company's products, both in its present wound care market and in markets associated with products the Company currently has under development. Medical Services Division and Consumer Services Division. The Company competes against many companies that sell products which are competitive with the Company's products, with many of its competitors using very aggressive marketing efforts. Many of the Company's competitors are substantially larger than the Company in terms of sales and distribution networks and have substantially greater financial and other resources. The Company's ability to compete against these companies will depend in part on the expansion of the marketing network for its products. The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in the marketing of its products are their quality, and that they are naturally based and competitively priced. Governmental Regulation ----------------------- The production and marketing of the Company's products, and the Company's research and development activities, are subject to regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United States, drug devices for human use are subject to rigorous FDA regulation. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended (the "FFDC Act"), the regulations promulgated thereunder, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of the Company's products. For marketing outside the U.S., the Company is subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs and devices. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement may vary widely from country to country. Food and Drug Administration. The contents, labeling and advertising of many of the Company's products are regulated by the FDA. The Company is required to obtain FDA approval before it can study or market any proposed prescription drugs and may be required to obtain such approval for proposed nonprescription products. This procedure involves extensive clinical research, and separate FDA approvals are required at various stages of product development. The approval process requires, among other things, presentation of substantial evidence to the FDA, based on clinical studies, as to the safety and efficacy of the proposed product. After approval, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production and quality control to assure continual compliance with the current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations. Also, under the new program for harmonization between Europe and the United States, the Company is required to meet the requirements of the International Committee on Harmonization and the ISO 13485 regulations, for OTC drugs and medical devices, respectively. A company can, under certain circumstances after application, have a new drug approved under a process known as centralization rather than having to go through a country-by-country approval in the European Union. Certain of the Company's wound and skin care products are registered with the FDA as medical devices pursuant to the regulations under Section 510(k) of the FFDC Act (known as Premarket Notification). A medical device is a product whose primary intended medical purpose, such as to cover a wound, is accomplished without a chemical or pharmacological action. A medical device which is substantially equivalent to an existing product will be reviewed by the FDA and if clearance to market is granted, then the device can be sold in the United States without additional developmental studies. A medical device which is not substantially equivalent is subject to an FDA approval process similar to that required for a new drug, beginning with an Investigational Device Exemption and culminating in a Premarket Approval. The Company has sought and obtained all its device approvals under Section 510(k). The Company currently markets eight (8) products which require a prescription as medical devices. Other Regulatory Authorities. The Company's advertising and sales practices are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC"), the FDA and state agencies. The Company's processing and manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state and foreign laws and to regulation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the Department of the Treasury and by the Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA"), as well as the FDA and USDA. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to its operations, but there is no assurance that such laws and regulations will not be changed. Any such change may have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. The manufacturing, processing, formulating, packaging, labeling and advertising of products of the Company's Consumer Services Division, are also subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the USDA and the EPA. These activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries to which the Company's products are distributed and in which the Company's products are sold. The FDA, in particular, regulates the formulation, manufacture and labeling of vitamin and other nutritional supplements. The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 ("DSHEA") revised the provisions of the FFDC Act concerning the composition and labeling of dietary supplements and, in the judgment of the Company, is favorable to the dietary supplement industry. The legislation created a new statutory class, entitled dietary supplement, which includes vitamins, minerals, herbs, amino acids and other dietary substances for human use to supplement the diet. DSHEA grandfathered, with certain limitations, dietary ingredients on the market before October 15, 1994. A dietary supplement which contains a new dietary ingredient, one not on the market before October 15, 1994, requires evidence of a history of use or other evidence of safety establishing that it will reasonably be expected to be safe. The majority of the products marketed by the Consumer Services Division are classified as dietary supplements under DSHEA. Both foods and dietary supplements are subject to the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990 (the "NLEA"), which prohibits the use of any health claim for foods, including dietary supplements, unless the health claim is supported by significant scientific agreement and is either pre-approved by the FDA or the subject of substantial government scientific publications and a notification to the FDA. To date, the FDA has approved the use of only limited health claims for dietary supplements. However, among other things, DSHEA amended, for dietary supplements, the NLEA by providing that statements of nutritional support may be used in labeling for dietary supplements without FDA pre-approval if certain requirements, including prominent disclosure on the label of the lack of FDA review of the relevant statement, possession by the marketer of substantiating evidence for the statement and post-use notification to the FDA, are met. Such statements may describe how particular nutritional supplements affect the structure, function or general well-being of the body (e.g., "promotes cardiovascular health"). Advertising and label claims for dietary supplements and conventional foods have been regulated by state and federal authorities under a number of disparate regulatory schemes. There can be no assurance that a state will not interpret claims presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that state's regulations, or that future FDA regulations or FTC decisions will not restrict the permissible scope of such claims. Governmental regulations in foreign countries where the Consumer Services Division plans to commence or expand sales may prevent or delay entry into the market, or prevent or delay the introduction of, or require the reformulation of, certain of the Consumer Services Division's products. Compliance with such foreign governmental regulations is generally the responsibility of the Consumer Service Division's distributors for those countries. These distributors are independent contractors over which the Consumer Services Division has limited control. As a result of efforts to comply with applicable statutes and regulations, the Consumer Services Division has from time to time reformulated, eliminated or relabeled certain of its products and revised certain provisions of its sales and marketing program. The Consumer Services Division cannot predict the nature of any future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can it determine what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on its business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not capable of reformulation, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with the provisions of national, state and local environmental laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, financial position, liquidity or competitive position of the Company. Patents and Proprietary Rights ------------------------------ As is industry practice, the Company has a policy of using patents, trademarks and trade secrets to protect the results of its research and development activities and, to the extent it may be necessary or advisable, to exclude others from appropriating the Company's proprietary technology. The Company's policy is to protect aggressively its proprietary technology by seeking and enforcing patents in a worldwide program. The Company has obtained patents or filed patent applications in the United States and approximately 26 other countries in three series regarding the compositions of acetylated mannan derivatives, the processes by which they are produced and the methods of their use. The first series of patent applications, relating to the compositions of acetylated mannan derivatives and certain basic processes of their production, was filed in a chain of U.S. patent applications and its counterparts in the other 26 countries. The first U.S. patent application in this first series, covering the composition claims of acetylated mannan derivatives, matured into U.S. Patent No. 4,735,935 (the "935 Patent"), which was issued on April 5, 1988, and expired on April 5, 2005. U.S. Patent No. 4,917,890 (the "890 Patent") was issued on April 17, 1990 from a divisional application to the 935 Patent. This divisional application pertains to most of the remaining claims in the original application not covered by the 935 Patent. The 890 Patent generally relates to the basic processes of producing acetylated mannan derivatives, to certain specific examples of such processes and to certain formulations of acetylated mannan derivatives. Two other divisional applications covering the remaining claims not covered by the 890 Patent matured into patents, the first on September 25, 1990, as U.S. Patent No. 4,959,214, and the second on October 30, 1990, as U.S. Patent No. 4,966,892. Foreign patents that are counterparts to the foregoing U.S. patents have been granted in some of the member states of the European Union and several other countries. The second series of patent applications related to preferred processes for the production of acetylated mannan derivatives. One of them matured into U.S. Patent No. 4,851,224, which was issued on July 25, 1989. This patent is the subject of a Patent Cooperation Treaty application and national foreign applications in several countries. An additional U.S. patent based on the second series was issued on September 18, 1990, as U.S. Patent No. 4,957,907. The third series of patent applications, relating to the uses of acetylated mannan derivatives, was filed subsequent to the second series. Three of them matured into U.S. Patent Nos. 5,106,616, issued on April 21, 1992; 5,118,673, issued on June 2, 1992, and 5,308,838, issued on May 3, 1994. The Company has filed a number of divisional applications to these patents, each dealing with specific uses of acetylated mannan derivatives. Patent Cooperation Treaty applications based on the parent U.S. applications have been filed designating a number of foreign countries. The Company has obtained a patent in the United States relating to a therapeutic device made from freeze-dried complex carbohydrate hydrogel (U.S. Patent No. 5,409,703, issued on April 25, 1995). A Patent Cooperation Treaty application based on the parent U.S. application has been filed designating a number of foreign countries where the applications are pending. The Company has obtained patents in the United States (U.S. Patent No. 5,760,102, issued on June 2, 1998) and Taiwan (Taiwan Patent No. 89390, issued on August 21, 1997) related to the uses of a denture adhesive and also a patent in the United States relating to methods for the prevention and treatment of infections in animals (U.S. Patent No. 5,703,060, issued on December 30, 1997). The Company obtained a patent in the United States (U.S. Patent No. 5,902,796, issued on May 11, 1999) related to the process for obtaining bioactive material from Aloe vera L. Also obtained was a U.S. patent (U.S. Patent No. 5,925,357, issued on July 20, 1999) related to the process for a new Aloe vera L. product that maintains the complex carbohydrates with the addition of other substances normally provided by "Whole Leaf Aloe." Additionally, the Company obtained a Japanese letters-patent (Patent No. 2888249, having a Patent Registration Date of February 19, 1999) for the use of acemannan (a) in a vaccine product; (b) in enhancing natural kill cell activity and in enhancing specific tumor cell lysis by white cells and/or antibodies; (c) in correcting malabsorption and mucosal cell maturation syndromes in man or animals; and (d) in reducing symptoms associated with multiple sclerosis. The Company also received the grant of European Patent Application under No. 0611304, having the date of publication and mention of the grant of the patent of September 15, 1999. This European Letters Patent claims the use of acetylated mannan for the regulation of blood cholesterol levels and for the removal of plaque in blood vessels. A patent was also issued in South Korea and Canada. In addition, the Company obtained an Australian Patent (Patent No. 718631, having an Accepted Journal Date of April 20, 2000) and a South Korean Patent (No. 463469), issued December 16, 2004 on Uses of Denture Adhesive Containing Aloe Extract. On June 20, 2000, Singapore granted the Company a patent on Bioactive Factors of Aloe Vera Plants (P-No. 51748) and on February 6, 2004, under Patent No. 419354, South Korea issued a patent for the same. The Company obtained on September 25, 2002, a European Patent (Patent No. 0884994) which was validated in Great Britain, Germany (No. 69715827.6), France, Italy and Portugal associated with the uses of denture adhesive containing Aloe Vera L. extract. In addition, the Company was issued on August 13, 2002, a Canadian Patent (No. 2,122,604) associated with the process for preparation of aloe products. The Company also obtained on June 24, 2002, a Korean Patent (No. 343293) and on June 5, 2002, European Patent (No. 0705113) which was validated in Great Britain, France, Germany (No. 69430746.7-08), Italy and Austria associated with dried hydrogel from hydrophilic hygroscopic polymer. The Company also obtained, on May 28, 2003, a European Patent (No. 966294), which was validated in Great Britain, France, Italy, Sweden, and Germany (No. 69815071.6) associated with the bifurcated method to process aloe whole leaf. Also, the Company was issued, on July 23, 2003 a European Patent (No. 965346), which was validated in France, Great Britain, Italy, and Germany (No. 69133298.3), associated with uses of acetylated mannan derivatives in treating chronic respiratory disease. The Company has received several patents related to the drug delivery technology that is the foundation for its subsidiary DelSite Biotechnologies, Inc. The first patent obtained was in the United States (U.S. Patent No. 5,929,051, issued on July 27, 1999) related to the composition and process for a new complex carbohydrate (pectin) isolated from Aloe vera L. The Company received the grant of two U.S. patents (Patent No. 6,274,548 issued August 14, 2001, and Patent No. 6,313,103 issued November 6, 2001) associated with the use of pectins for purification, stabilization and delivery of certain growth factors. The Company also received, on August 17, 2004, a U.S. patent (No. 6,777,000) relating to the use of pectin "in- situ" gelling formulations for the delivery and sustained release of physiologically active agents such as drugs and vaccines. Also, the Company was issued, on September 28, 2005, a European Patent (No. EP 1 086 141) relating to aloe pectins, process of isolation and their use. On December 21, 2005, the Company was issued EP Patent No. 1 607 407 that relates to compositions and delivery of bioactive substances. Other U.S. PCT applications on aloe pectin and its drug delivery applications are pending. A U.S. patent application on growth factor and protease enzyme is also pending. The Company has filed and intends to file patent applications with respect to subsequent developments and improvements when it believes such protection is in the best interest of the Company. The scope of protection which ultimately may be afforded by the patents and patent applications of the Company is difficult to quantify. There can be no assurance that (i) any additional patents will be issued to the Company in any or all appropriate jurisdictions, (ii) litigation will not be commenced seeking to challenge the Company's patent protection or such challenges will not be successful, (iii) processes or products of the Company do not or will not infringe upon the patents of third parties or (iv) the scope of patents issued to the Company will successfully prevent third parties from developing similar and competitive products. It is not possible to predict how any patent litigation will affect the Company's efforts to develop, manufacture or market its products. The Company also relies upon, and intends to continue to rely upon, trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain its competitive position. The Company typically enters into confidentiality agreements with its scientific consultants, and the Company's key employees have entered into agreements with the Company requiring that they forbear from disclosing confidential information of the Company and assign to the Company all rights in any inventions made while in the Company's employ relating to the Company's activities. The technology applicable to the Company's products is developing rapidly. A substantial number of patents have been issued to other biopharmaceutical companies. In addition, competitors have filed applications for, or have been issued, patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or processes competitive with those of the Company. To the Company's knowledge, acetylated mannan derivatives do not infringe any valid, enforceable U.S. patents. A number of patents have been issued to others with respect to various extracts of the Aloe vera L. plant and their uses and formulations, particularly in respect to skin care and cosmetic uses. While the Company is not aware of any existing patents which conflict with its current and planned business activities, there can be no assurance that holders of such other Aloe vera L.-based patents will not claim that particular formulations and uses of acetylated mannan derivatives in combination with other ingredients or compounds infringe, in some respect, on these other patents. In addition, others may have filed patent applications and may have been issued patents relating to products and technologies potentially useful to the Company or necessary to commercialize its products or achieve their business goals. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain licenses of such patents on acceptable terms. On December 15, 2004, DelSite filed an Opposition proceeding in the European Patent Office against EP Patent EP 0 975 367. This EP patent was granted March 31, 2004 and assigned to West Pharmaceutical Services Drug Delivery & Clinical Research Centre Limited ("West"). A similar U.S. Patent No. 6,432,440 issued to West on August 13, 2002, and similar West patents have been granted or applications are pending in several non-European countries, such as Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and South Africa. The aforementioned patents have now been assigned to Archimedes Pharma. The claims of the Archimedes patents are directed to aqueous liquid compositions for delivering drugs which contain therapeutic agents and pectins and can form therapeutic agent-containing gels when applied to mucosal surfaces. The Archimedes patents also claim methods of using and manufacturing the liquid pharmaceutical compositions, and the pharmaceutical gel compositions formed by "in-situ" gellation processes. DelSite also desires to clear a legal path so that potential DelSite products can be sold for administration in liquid form in the future. The objective of the DelSite opposition to the Archimedes EP patent is to force legal revocation of the Archimedes patent in Europe, or a significant narrowing of the Archimedes claims, by legally demonstrating that, in view of prior art not considered by the patent examiners, the current claims of the EP patent should not have been granted and/or are invalid. Completion of the EP opposition proceedings is anticipated to take as long as three to six years. The Company has given the trade name Carrasyn[R] to certain of its products containing acetylated mannans. The Company has filed a selected series of domestic and foreign trademark applications for the marks Manapol[R] powder, Carrisyn[R], Carrasyn[R] and CarraGauze[R]. Further, the Company has registered the trademark AVMP[TM] Powder and the trade name Carrington[R] in the United States. In 1999, the Company obtained four additional registered trademarks in Brazil. In June 2000 the Company obtained registration in the United States of its mark AloeCeuticals[R] for its skin care and nutritional supplement products. In September 2002 the Company obtained registration in the United States of its mark CaraKlenz[R] for its proprietary wound cleanser product with that name. In November 2003 the Company obtained registration in the United States of its mark "DelSite and design[TM]" for its research and development of dry stabilization and delivery systems for customers in the field of pharmaceuticals and diagnostic reagents. In August 2004 the Company obtained registrations in Japan and in November 2004, South Korea of its mark GelVac[TM]. In September 2004 the Company obtained registrations in the United States of its marks GelSite[R] and Salicept[R]. In October 2004 the Company acquired a U.S. registration for the mark Orapatch[TM] as well as a Canadian application from the same mark. In addition, applications for the registration of the marks GelVac[TM] and, Brace-Eez[TM], and OraPatch[TM] are pending in the United States. In June 2005, the Company obtained registration in Europe of its marks GelVac[TM] and Salicept[R]. Employees --------- As of February 28, 2006, the Company employed 263 persons, of whom 54 were engaged in the operation and maintenance of its Irving, Texas processing plant, 147 were employed at the Company's facility in Costa Rica and the remainder were executive, research, quality assurance, manufacturing, administrative, sales, and clerical personnel. Of the total number of employees, 114 were located in the U.S., 147 in Costa Rica, one in Puerto Rico and one in Europe. The Company considers relations with its employees to be good. The employees are not represented by a labor union. Available Information --------------------- The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports, and amendments to these reports, that the Company files with or furnishes to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") are available free of charge at the Company's website www.carringtonlabs.com, as soon as reasonably practicable, after the Company electronically files such reports with, or furnishes such reports to, the SEC. The posting of these reports on the Company's website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the other information contained on the website, and such other information on the Company's website should not be considered part of such reports unless the Company expressly incorporates such other information by reference. The Company will also furnish copies of such reports free of charge upon written request to the Company's Investor Relations Department. Additionally, the Company's corporate governance code of business conduct and ethics and the charters of the Company's Board Committees, including the Audit, Board Governance and Nominating, Compensation and Stock Option and Executive Committees, are available on the Company's website. The Company will also furnish copies of such information free of charge upon written request to the Company's Investor Relations department. Individuals can contact the Company's Investor Relations Department at: Carrington Laboratories, Inc., 2001 Walnut Hill Lane, Irving, TX 75038, Attention: Maria Mitchell. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. ------------ You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Risks Related to Our Business We may not achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred a net loss in the year ended December 31, 2005 of $5,336,000. We reported nominal net income of approximately $36,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. We incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003 of $1,506,000. We rely heavily on outside sources of funds to maintain our liquidity. Our prospects for achieving profitability will depend primarily on how successful we are in executing our business plan to: * increase revenues by offering innovative new products, growing existing product lines and continuing to offer exceptional customer service; * increase profitability by continuing to improve operational efficiency, working capital management and modernization of equipment; * enlarge and diversify our customer base to reduce dependence on a limited number of significant customers; * develop and market our proprietary GelSite[R] technology; * enter into strategic partnerships and collaboration arrangements related to our GelSite[R] drug delivery programs and product candidates; and * continue to develop our preclinical product candidates and advance them to the point where they are available for strategic partnerships and collaboration arrangements. If we are not successful in executing our business plan, we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We are dependent on a limited number of customers. Three large customers account for most of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Natural Alternatives, Mannatech and Medline accounted for 26.6%, 6.6% and 26.6%, respectively, of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2004, sales to those three customers accounted for approximately 44.8%, 1.9% and 22.6%, repectively, of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2003, sales to those three customers accounted for approximately 35.6%, 3.4% and 24.9%, respectively, of our total revenue. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account, alone or in the aggregate, for a high percentage of our net revenues. Dependence on a limited number of customers exposes us to the risk that order reductions from any one customer may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. For instance, in 2005, combined sales to Natural Alternatives and Mannatech decreased approximately $5.1 million or 35.5% from their 2004 levels. Presently, we are uncertain as to the future levels of sales if any, to these two customers. A further significant decrease in orders from these two customers would have a material adverse impact on our revenues and net income, as well as our ability to fund our continuing operations from cash flow. We may be subject to product liability exposure. We have recently been (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings regarding voluntary product recall discussions), and could in the future be, subject to product liability claims in connection with the use of products that we and our licensees are currently manufacturing, testing or selling or that we and any licensees may manufacture, test or sell in the future. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any liability resulting from these claims or would be able to have its customers indemnify or insure us against such claims. We currently carry product liability insurance in the amount of $10,000,000, but that coverage may not be adequate in terms and scope to protect us against material adverse effects in the event of a successful product liability claim. We will need significant additional funds for future research and development. Our research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 were $5,796,000, $4,737,000, and $3,660,000 respectively. Given our current level of cash reserves and rate of revenue generation, we may not be able to fully advance the development of our products unless we raise additional cash through financing from the sale of our securities and/or through additional partnering agreements or research grants, none of which may be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We will need significant funding to pursue our overall product development plans. In general, our products under development will require significant, time-consuming and costly research and development, clinical testing, regulatory approval and significant additional investment prior to their commercialization. The research and development activities we conduct may not be successful; our products under development may not prove to be safe and effective; our clinical development work may not be completed; and the anticipated products may not be commercially viable or successfully marketed. The terms of our credit facility restrict our operational flexibility. Our credit facility contains covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to borrow money, make particular types of investments, including investments in our subsidiaries, or other restricted payments, swap or sell assets, merge or consolidate, or make acquisitions. Default under our credit facility could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure the debt under our credit facility. If the lenders declare amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against those assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business if the creditors determine to exercise their rights and could cause us to be unable to repay all or a substantial portion of our then outstanding indebtedness. Our credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control. On three occasions in the past two years, and currently, we have been required to seek and obtain waivers for failure to satisfy certain financial ratios under our credit facility. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility, restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or subject us to other events of default. Any such restrictive covenants in any future debt obligations we incur could limit our ability to fund our businesses with equity investments or intercompany advances, which would impede our ability to operate or expand our business. From time to time we may require consents or waivers from our lenders to permit actions that are prohibited by our credit facility. If, in the future, our lenders refuse to provide waivers of our credit facility's restrictive covenants and/or financial ratios, then we may be in default under our credit facility, and may be prohibited from making payments on our then outstanding indebtedness. We may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and we may be unable to borrow funds under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations, to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. We are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The commercialization of certain of our proposed products will require approvals from the FDA, and comparable regulatory agencies in most foreign countries. To obtain such approvals, the safety and efficacy of the products must be demonstrated through extensive preclinical testing and human clinical trials. The safety or efficacy of a product, to the extent demonstrated in preclinical testing, may not be pertinent to the development of, or indicative of the safety or efficacy of, a product for the human market. In addition, the results of clinical trials of a product may not be consistent with results obtained in preclinical tests. Furthermore, there is no assurance that any product will be shown to be safe and effective or that regulatory approval for any product will be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. Certain of our proposed products will require governmental approval or licensing prior to commercial use. Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trial activities, as well as the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop, are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies abroad. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for some of our products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and any regulatory approvals may contain limitations on the indicated usage of a product, distribution restrictions or may be conditioned on burdensome post-approval study or other requirements, including the requirement that we institute and follow a special risk management plan to monitor and manage potential safety issues, all of which may eliminate or reduce the product's market potential. Post- market evaluation of a product could result in marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market. The results of preclinical and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of whether a product will demonstrate safety and efficacy in larger patient populations, as evaluated in Phase 3 clinical trials. Additional adverse events that could impact commercial success, or even continued regulatory approval, might emerge with more extensive post- approval patient use. Future United States or foreign legislative or administrative acts could also prevent or delay regulatory approval of our or our licensees' products. Failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested could delay or preclude us and any of our licensees from marketing our products, or could limit the commercial use of the products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to remain competitive with our competitors, many of which have greater resources than we do, could adversely affect our results of operations. The biopharmaceutical field is expected to continue to undergo rapid and significant technological change. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and expertise (in areas including research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing) than we have. This competition can be expected to become more intense as commercial applications for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products increase. Some of these companies may be better able than we to develop, refine, manufacture and market products which have application to the same indications as we are exploring. We understand that certain of these competitors are in the process of conducting human clinical trials of, or have filed applications with government agencies for approval to market, certain products that will compete in markets associated with products we currently have under development. We compete against many companies that sell products which are competitive with our products, with many of our competitors using very aggressive marketing efforts. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are in terms of sales and distribution networks and have substantially greater financial and other resources. Our ability to compete against these companies will depend in part on the expansion of the marketing network for our products. The breadth, validity and enforceability of patents we have obtained cannot be predicted. We attempt to protect our proprietary rights by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of the our business. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and therefore the breadth, validity and enforceability of claims allowed in patents we have obtained cannot be predicted. Our pending applications or patent applications in preparation may or may not be issued as patents in the future. Additionally, our existing patents, patents pending and patents that we may subsequently obtain will not necessarily preclude competitors from developing products that compete with products we have developed and thus would substantially lessen the value of our proprietary rights. We intend to file additional patent applications, when appropriate, relating to our technologies, improvements to our technologies and specific products we may develop. If any of our patents are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or held to be unenforceable, we could lose the protection of rights we believe to be valuable, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Also, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and certain contractors. These agreements may not ultimately provide us with adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, and, in addition, the parties may breach such agreements or our agreements may be deemed unenforceable. Our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, manufacturing, marketing and management personnel. We believe that we employ highly qualified personnel in all these areas. However, we face competition for such personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining the requisite personnel. Risks Related to Our Common Stock --------------------------------- We may be unable to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq National Market. Our common stock currently is listed for trading on the Nasdaq National Market. If we are unable to continue to meet Nasdaq's original listing standards, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. If our common stock is delisted, we would likely seek to list our common stock on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the American Stock Exchange, or on a regional stock exchange. Listing on such other market or exchange could reduce the liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock is not listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market or an exchange, trading of our common stock will be conducted in the over-the counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities or directly through market makers in our common stock. If our common stock were to trade in the over-the- counter market, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, the common stock. A delisting from the Nasdaq National Market and failure to obtain listing on such other market or exchange could subject our securities to so-called "penny stock rules" that impose additional sales practice and market-making requirements on broker-dealers that sell or make a market in such securities. Consequently, removal from the Nasdaq National Market and failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange could affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock and the ability of purchasers of our common stock to sell their securities in the secondary market. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: * variations in our quarterly results; * announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; * introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; * acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; * recruitment or departure of key personnel; * the gain or loss of significant orders; * the gain or loss of significant customers; * changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock; and * market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole. Since our initial public offering in 1983, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. Announcements of a positive or negative nature regarding technical innovations, new commercial products, regulatory approvals, patent or proprietary rights or other developments concerning us or our competitors could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing shareholders, or by shareholders who receive shares of our common stock through the exercise of options or warrants, the conversion of preferred stock or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We do not pay cash dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering in 1983 and do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to apply any earnings to the expansion and development of our business. Certain provisions of Texas law, our restated articles of incorporation and our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing shareholders. Our restated articles of incorporation and the Texas Business Corporation Act contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of shareholders. These include provisions limiting the shareholders' powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a shareholders' meeting. Our restated articles of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Our bylaws also include provisions that divide our directors into three classes that are elected for staggered three-year terms and that establish advance notice procedures with respect to submissions by shareholders of proposals to be acted on at shareholder meetings and of nominations of candidates for election as directors. Texas law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with "interested shareholders." We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan was designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of our company, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of our company. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. ------------------------- None. 