RISK FACTORS MINING RISKS The Company is subject to the risks typical in the mining business including uncertainty of success in exploration and development; operational risks including unusual and unexpected geological formations, rock bursts, particularly as mining moves into deeper levels, cave-ins, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material as well as environmental damage and other hazards; risks that intended production schedules or estimated costs will not be achieved; and risks of fluctuations in the price of gold and copper and currency exchange rates. Metal prices are subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time and are affected by numerous factors, all of which are beyond the Company's control, including expectations for inflation, levels of interest rates, sales of gold by central banks, the demand for gold and copper, global or regional political, economic and banking crises and production rates in major producing regions. The aggregate effect of these factors is impossible to predict with any degree of certainty. Although the Company may engage in some limited hedging from time to time to protect against a portion of the volatility, the Company is not currently protected against gold price movements. Any hedging and other activities involving financial instruments may be subject to margin requirements. In 2006, the Company will be dependent of two operations, the Joe Mann Mine and the Copper Rand mine (the "Copper Rand Mine"), as the source of its cash flow. The 2006 operating plan is based on a gold price of US$477 per ounce a copper price of US$1.94 per pound and a Canadian/US dollar exchange rate of US$1.00/CDN$1.1550 and anticipates cash production costs (excluding pre-production development, exploration and reclamation costs of US$370 per ounce). The ability of the Company to achieve the cash costs is largely based on the successful adoption of the operating assumptions and completion of the exploration and development work contained. Should metal prices decrease significantly or the US dollar decline significantly compared to the Canadian dollar or the cash cost be higher than projected, the ability of the mines to generate cash flow will be impaired. Development is currently underway on the Copper Rand 5000 project (the "Copper Rand Project") which includes the Copper Rand Mine. The Copper Rand Mine is still in pre-production. The first tons of ore were hoisted October 18, 2004 and the first tons of concentrate were shipped to Falconbridge Limited's Horne smelter on November 23, 2004. The pre-production phase will continue until revenues generated are sufficient to meet operating expenses and amortization and depreciation charges. Depending on the prevailing market conditions, development work on the Corner Bay project may be undertaken. There can be no assurance that the price of copper will not reach a level for the project to be economically viable nor that the Corner Bay property will be brought into production. The figures for mineral reserves and resources presented herein are estimates and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or the indicated level of recovery realized. In addition, no assurance can be given that the gold price on which these estimates are based can be achieved. See Item 4 headings "The Joe Mann Mine", "The Copper Rand Mine", "The Corner Bay Property" and sub-heading "Mineral Reserves and Resources". As well, lead times required for underground stope preparation and development in mining operations can affect production decisions and schedules. Gold and copper prices fluctuations may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral reserves, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different ore grades may cause the Company to be unprofitable in any particular accounting period. -6- The Company carries insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts as it considers adequate. Risks not insured against include political risk, environmental pollution, mine flooding, landslides or other natural hazards relating to climate or topography as well as other hazards which cannot be insured against or which the Company may elect not to insure against. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Campbell holds all the permits required under the "Environmental Quality Act" (Quebec), the "Mining Act" (Quebec) and other applicable legislation and regulations. During 1995, proposed amendments to the Mining Act (Quebec) relating particularly to rehabilitation and restoration plans came into force. This legislation required that a rehabilitation and restoration plan be submitted for approval within one year of the legislation coming into force and that a financial guarantee be furnished with respect to such plan. Campbell filed preliminary rehabilitation and restoration plans on March 9, 1996, and has filed additional information required there under within the extensions granted by Quebec mining authorities. Annual financial guarantees are required to be filed in connection with the rehabilitation and restoration plan within 15 days of approval of the plan. The plan for the Joe Mann Mine site was approved in early 2000 and an amount of $350,000 required was deposited as at December 31, 2005. The plan for the Campbell Mill site is pending approval. The appropriate method of re-mediating acid spots, which have appeared on fifty hectares of previously re-vegetated tailings, is currently being reviewed. Two alternate methods are being considered which involve costs ranging from $10,000 to $30,000 per hectare. Campbell currently estimates that the maximum annual financial guarantees will range from $154,000 in the first year to $1,871,000 in the fourth year for an aggregate of $3,517,500. The asset retirement obligations total $3,607,000 for both sites as at December 31, 2005. Campbell benefits from an environmental fund of approximately $4,100,000 ($4,400,000 in 2004) as at December 31, 2005. This amount was set aside for the restoration of the Copper Rand, Portage, Jaculet and Copper Cliff mining sites when the properties were acquired from Westminer Canada Limited (now WMC International Limited) ("Westminer") in 1993. The asset retirement obligations total $3,012,000 as at December 31, 2005. As at December 31, 2005 the trustee of the fund had posted a $1,163,000 financial guarantee with the ministere de l'Environnement (Quebec) ("MENVIQ") in respect of the rehabilitation plan which was approved by the Quebec mining authorities. In the event there is a shortage of funds required to do the rehabilitation and restoration work, the shortfall will be assumed equally between the Company and Societe de developpement de la Baie-James ("SDBJ"). A $1,027,000 accrual has been recorded as asset retirement obligations at the Eastmain Property ("Eastmain" or the "Property"). No financial guarantee is required because the ore was milled at Copper Rand Mill and there are no tailings on the property. In January 2004, the Oujibougoumou Cree initiated legal proceedings against the Company, claiming that the poor condition of lakes in the region of Chibougamau, Quebec was due to mining activities in the area. The Public Health Department, the MENVIQ and the Quebec Fish and Wildlife Association began to study the issue. As a temporary measure, the Company and the plaintiffs jointly agreed in 2004 to request that proceedings be suspended for one year. A new postponement is currently negotiated by the parties. It is not possible to determine either the outcome of the proceedings or the financial consequences for the Company. -7- 