ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued): The Company may evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives, any of which could distract management or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s future success may depend on opportunities to buy or obtain rights to other businesses that could complement, enhance or expand its current business or products or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. In particular, the Company may evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, strategic initiatives, alliances, opportunities and divestitures. Any attempt by the Company to engage in these transactions may expose it to various inherent risks, including: · not accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; · the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; · the ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; · difficulties in successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly-acquired operations or employees; · difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business; · the possibility of impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; and · the diversion of management’s attention from the existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or implement the strategic initiative. The recent economic recession may negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The economic recession has resulted in decreased sales, which has negatively affected the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity notwithstanding certain cost-cutting measures taken by the Company in response to such decreased sales. In the event that the economic recession continues, the Company may be forced to take additional cost-cutting measures which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to execute its business plan, resulting in further negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws and other corporate documents include anti-takeover provisions which may deter or prevent a takeover attempt. Some provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, by-laws, other corporate documents and provisions of Delaware law may discourage takeover attempts and hinder a merger, tender offer or proxy contest targeting us, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. This may limit the ability of stockholders to approve a transaction that they may think is in their best interest. These provisions include: · Classified Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides for a board which is divided into three classes, so not all of the directors are subject to election at the same time. As a result, someone who wishes to take control of the Company by electing a majority of the board of directors must do so over a two-year period. · Employment Contracts. The Company is a party to employment and/or change-in-control agreements with various of its executive officers and key employees, which agreements contain provisions entitling the employee to payments upon termination following a change-in-control. Additionally, with respect to all employees, any outstanding options held by them will automatically become fully exercisable in the event of a a sale or change of control of the Company. As a result, under certain circumstances a party seeking to take control of the Company will be required to make certain payments to these individuals. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and may continue to increase, the Company’s costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ, required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. Compliance with these rules has increased our legal and financial accounting costs since the announcement and effectiveness of these new rules. While these costs are no longer increasing, they may, in fact, increase in the future. In addition, given the recent turmoil in the securities and credit markets, as well as the global economy, many U.S. and international governmental, regulatory and supervisory authorities, including, but not limited to, the SEC and NASDAQ, are currently contemplating changes in their laws, regulations and rules. Any such future changes, especially from the SEC or NASDAQ, may cause our legal and financial accounting costs to increase. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 