ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. ------------- You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Risks Related to Our Business We may not achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 of $7,607,000. We reported a net loss of $5,336,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005. We reported nominal net income of approximately $36,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004. We rely heavily on outside sources of funds to maintain our liquidity. Our prospects for achieving profitability will depend primarily on how successful we are in executing our business plan to: * increase revenues by offering innovative new products, growing existing product lines and continuing to offer exceptional customer service; * increase profitability by continuing to improve operational efficiency, working capital management and modernization of equipment; * enlarge and diversify our customer base to reduce dependence on a limited number of significant customers; * develop and market our proprietary GelSite[R] technology; * enter into strategic partnerships and collaboration arrangements related to our GelSite[R] drug delivery programs and product candidates; and * continue to develop our preclinical product candidates and advance them to the point where they are available for strategic partnerships and collaboration arrangements. If we are not successful in executing our business plan, we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We will require additional financing to sustain our operations and without it we may not be able to continue operations. Our inability to raise additional working capital, or to raise it on terms which are acceptable to us, or to raise it in a timely manner would negatively impact our ability to fund our operations to generate revenues, and to otherwise execute our business plan, leading to the possible reduction or suspension of our operations or ultimately to our going out of business. At December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had operating cash flow deficit of $5.1 million and $3.4 million, respectively; and we had an operating cash flow of $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. We have received a report from our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 in which our auditors have included explanatory paragraphs indicating that our significant net losses and working capital deficiency cause substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are currently in default under our credit facility, due to our inability to meet certain financial covenants. Historically, our lender has waived the events of non-compliance under the terms of the facility. However, we believe that it is unlikely that Comerica will continue to grant such waivers after the second quarter of 2007, and can make no assurances that such waivers will be granted for events of non-compliance occurring subsequent to May 31, 2007. We are seeking additional funding that would enable us to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility and fund our working capital obligations. However, additional funds may not be available when required or on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to cure our existing defaults under the credit facility, obtain waivers from our lender or obtain additional financing, our business prospects, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected to such an extent that we are forced to restructure, sell some of our assets or curtail our operations. We are dependent on a limited number of customers. A few large customers account for most of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales to Natural Alternatives, Mannatech, Medline and Wormser Corporation ("Wormser") accounted for approximately 13.5%, 10.3%, 26.2% and 9.8%, respectively, of our total revenue. During 2006 a new large customer, Wormser, was added to our client base. For the year ended December 31, 2005, sales to Natural Alternatives, Mannatech and Medline accounted for approximately 26.6%, 6.6% and 26.6%, respectively, of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2004, sales to those three customers accounted for 44.8%, 1.9% and 22.6% of our total revenue. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account, alone or in the aggregate, for a high percentage of our net revenues. Dependence on a limited number of customers exposes us to the risk that order reductions from any one customer may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. For instance, in 2006, combined sales to Natural Alternatives and Mannatech decreased approximately $2.64 million, or 28.5%, from their 2005 levels and in 2005, combined sales to these two customers decreased approximately $5.12 million, or 35.5%, from their 2004 levels. On January 25, 2007, we executed a three-year Supply and Trademark Licensing Agreement with Mannatech. The agreement calls for minimum purchase quantities from Mannatech at fixed price levels. We anticipate 2007 sales to Mannatech under this agreement to be above the minimum levels required by the agreement but, due to inconsistency in the size and timing of Mannatech's orders, are uncertain as to by how much sales to Mannatech will exceed the contractual minimums. Presently, we are uncertain as to the future levels of sales, if any, to Wormser. A significant decrease in orders from Wormser would have a material adverse impact on our revenues and net income, as well as our ability to fund our continuing operations from cash flow. We may be subject to product liability exposure. We have recently been (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings regarding voluntary product recall discussions), and could in the future be, subject to product liability claims in connection with the use of products that we and our licensees are currently manufacturing, testing or selling or that we and any licensees may manufacture, test or sell in the future. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any liability resulting from these claims or would be able to have its customers indemnify or insure us against such claims. We currently carry product liability insurance in the amount of $10,000,000, but that coverage may not be adequate in terms and scope to protect us against material adverse effects in the event of a successful product liability claim. We will need significant additional funds for future research and development. Our research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 were $5,760,000, $5,796,000, and $4,737,000, respectively. Given our current level of cash reserves and rate of revenue generation, we may not be able to advance fully the development of our products unless we raise additional cash through financing from the sale of our securities and/or through additional partnering agreements or research grants, none of which may be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We will need significant funding to pursue our overall product development plans. In general, our products under development will require significant, time-consuming and costly research and development, clinical testing, regulatory approval and significant additional investment prior to their commercialization. The research and development activities we conduct may not be successful; our products under development may not prove to be safe and effective; our clinical development work may not be completed; and the anticipated products may not be commercially viable or successfully marketed. The terms of our credit facility restrict our operational flexibility. Our credit facility contains covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to borrow money, make particular types of investments, including investments in our subsidiaries, or other restricted payments, swap or sell assets, merge or consolidate, or make acquisitions. Default under our credit facility could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure the debt under our credit facility. If the lenders declare amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against those assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business if the creditors determine to exercise their rights and could cause us to be unable to repay all or a substantial portion of our then outstanding indebtedness. Our credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control. On three occasions in the past two years, and currently, we have been required to seek and obtain waivers for failure to satisfy certain financial ratios under our credit facility. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility, restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or subject us to other events of default. Any such restrictive covenants in any future debt obligations we incur could limit our ability to fund our businesses with equity investments or intercompany advances, which would impede our ability to operate or expand our business. From time to time we may require consents or waivers from our lenders to permit actions that are prohibited by our credit facility. If, in the future, our lenders refuse to provide waivers of our credit facility's restrictive covenants and/or financial ratios, then we may be in default under our credit facility, and may be prohibited from making payments on our then outstanding indebtedness. We may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and we may be unable to borrow funds under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations, to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. We are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The commercialization of certain of our proposed products will require approvals from the FDA, and comparable regulatory agencies in most foreign countries. To obtain such approvals, the safety and efficacy of the products must be demonstrated through extensive preclinical testing and human clinical trials. The safety or efficacy of a product, to the extent demonstrated in preclinical testing, may not be pertinent to the development of, or indicative of the safety or efficacy of, a product for the human market. In addition, the results of clinical trials of a product may not be consistent with results obtained in preclinical tests. Furthermore, there is no assurance that any product will be shown to be safe and effective or that regulatory approval for any product will be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. Certain of our proposed products will require governmental approval or licensing prior to commercial use. Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trial activities, as well as the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop, are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies abroad. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for some of our products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and any regulatory approvals may contain limitations on the indicated usage of a product, distribution restrictions or may be conditioned on burdensome post-approval study or other requirements, including the requirement that we institute and follow a special risk management plan to monitor and manage potential safety issues, all of which may eliminate or reduce the product's market potential. Post- market evaluation of a product could result in marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market. The results of preclinical and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of whether a product will demonstrate safety and efficacy in larger patient populations, as evaluated in Phase 3 clinical trials. Additional adverse events that could impact commercial success, or even continued regulatory approval, might emerge with more extensive post- approval patient use. Future United States or foreign legislative or administrative acts could also prevent or delay regulatory approval of our or our licensees' products. Failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested could delay or preclude us and any of our licensees from marketing our products, or could limit the commercial use of the products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to remain competitive with our competitors, many of which have greater resources than we do, could adversely affect our results of operations. The biopharmaceutical field is expected to continue to undergo rapid and significant technological change. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and expertise (in areas including research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing) than we have. This competition can be expected to become more intense as commercial applications for biotechnology and pharmaceutical products increase. Some of these companies may be better able than we to develop, refine, manufacture and market products that have application to the same indications as we are exploring. We understand that certain of these competitors are in the process of conducting human clinical trials of, or have filed applications with government agencies for approval to market, certain products that will compete in markets associated with products we currently have under development. We compete against many companies that sell products that are competitive with our products, with many of our competitors using very aggressive marketing efforts. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are in terms of sales and distribution networks and have substantially greater financial and other resources. Our ability to compete against these companies will depend in part on the expansion of the marketing network for our products. The breadth, validity and enforceability of patents we have obtained cannot be predicted. We attempt to protect our proprietary rights by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of the our business. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and therefore the breadth, validity and enforceability of claims allowed in patents we have obtained cannot be predicted. Our pending applications or patent applications in preparation may or may not be issued as patents in the future. Additionally, our existing patents, patents pending and patents that we may subsequently obtain will not necessarily preclude competitors from developing products that compete with products we have developed and thus would substantially lessen the value of our proprietary rights. We intend to file additional patent applications, when appropriate, relating to our technologies, improvements to our technologies and specific products we may develop. If any of our patents are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or held to be unenforceable, we could lose the protection of rights we believe to be valuable, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Also, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and certain contractors. These agreements may not ultimately provide us with adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, and, in addition, the parties may breach such agreements or our agreements may be deemed unenforceable. Our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, manufacturing, marketing and management personnel. We believe that we employ highly qualified personnel in all these areas. However, we face competition for such personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining the requisite personnel. Risks Related to Our Common Stock --------------------------------- We may be unable to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock currently is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are unable to continue to meet Nasdaq's continued listing standards, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. For example, among other things, we could fail to maintain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market listing requirements if we did not maintain minimum stockholder equity of at least $2.5 million as a result of continuing losses, depending upon the type and amount of additional financing, if any, secured by the Company in 2007. If our common stock is not listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market or an exchange, trading of our common stock will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities or directly through market makers in our common stock. If our common stock were to trade in the over-the-counter market, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, the common stock. A delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market and failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange could subject our securities to so- called "penny stock rules" that impose additional sales practice and market- making requirements on broker-dealers that sell or make a market in such securities. Consequently, removal from the Nasdaq Capital Market and failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange could affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock and the ability of purchasers of our common stock to sell their securities in the secondary market. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: * variations in our quarterly results; * announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; * introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; * acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; * recruitment or departure of key personnel; * the gain or loss of significant orders; * the gain or loss of significant customers; * changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock; and * market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole. Since our initial public offering in 1983, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. Announcements of a positive or negative nature regarding technical innovations, new commercial products, regulatory approvals, patent or proprietary rights or other developments concerning us or our competitors could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing shareholders, or by shareholders who receive shares of our common stock through the exercise of options or warrants, the conversion of preferred stock or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We do not pay cash dividends. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering in 1983 and do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to apply any earnings to the expansion and development of our business. Certain provisions of Texas law, our restated articles of incorporation and our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing shareholders. Our restated articles of incorporation and the Texas Business Corporation Act contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of shareholders. These include provisions limiting the shareholders' powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a shareholders' meeting. Our restated articles of incorporation also authorize our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Our bylaws also include provisions that divide our directors into three classes that are elected for staggered three-year terms and that establish advance notice procedures with respect to submissions by shareholders of proposals to be acted on at shareholder meetings and of nominations of candidates for election as directors. Texas law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with "interested shareholders." We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan was designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of our company, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of our company. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. ------------------------- None. 