ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued): The Company’s goodwill and intangible assets could become impaired, which could reduce the value of its assets and reduce its net income in the year in which the write off occurs. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the assets acquired. The Company also attributes value to certain identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of customer relationships and non-competition agreements. The Company will incur impairment charges on goodwill or identifiable intangible assets if it determines that the fair values of such assets are less than the current carrying values. The Company evaluates on an annual basis or earlier if events or circumstances have occurred that indicate all, or a portion of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to net income would become necessary. Based upon the results of such testing the Company concluded that a portion of its goodwill was impaired and, as such recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $7,443,000 or $0.41 per basic and diluted share for the year ended February 28, 2009. The impairment charge did not impact the Company’s consolidated cash flows or liquidity. No impairment existed as of February 28, 2009 with respect to the Company’s identifiable intangible assets. See Note 1 to the Company’s financial statements appearing in Item 8 and ‘Critical Accounting Policies" in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the impairment testing of goodwill. A continued decline in general economic conditions could impact the judgments and assumptions used to determine the fair value of the Company’s businesses and the Company could be required to record an additional impairment charge in the future which potentially could reduce the Company’s total assets, as well as reduce net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 