ITEM 1A Risk Factors Pages 7 - 10 ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Page 11 ITEM 2 Properties Page 11 ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings Page 11 ITEM 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Page 11 PART II: ITEM 5 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Page 12 -13 ITEM 6 Selected Financial Data Page 14 ITEM 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Pages 15 - 20 ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Page 20 ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Pages F1 - F21 ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Page 21 ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures Pages 21 - 23 ITEM 9B Other Information Page 23 PART III: ITEM 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Page 23 ITEM 11 Executive Compensation Page 24 ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Page 24 ITEM 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Page 24 ITEM 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services Page 24 PART IV: ITEM 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Pages 25 - 28 Signatures Page 29 Accountant’s Consent Page Schedule II Page 30 Exhibit Index Page 31 2 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS: Statements in this Form 10-K annual report may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that express our intentions, beliefs, expectations, strategies, predictions or any other statements relating to our future activities or other future events or conditions. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our business based, in part, on assumptions made by management. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking statements due to numerous factors, including those risks discussed from time to time in this Form 10-K annual report for the year ended February 28, 2007, and in other documents which we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, such statements could be affected by risks and uncertainties related to product demand, market and customer acceptance, competition, government regulations and requirements, pricing and development difficulties, as well as general industry and market conditions and growth rates, and general economic conditions. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K. PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS: GENERAL: Nu Horizons Electronics Corp. a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1987, (the “Company”) and its wholly owned subsidiaries, NIC Components Corp. (“NIC”), Nu Horizons International Corp. (“International”), NUHC Inc. (“NUC”), Nu Horizons Asia PTE LTD (“NUA”), Nu Horizons Electronics Pte Ltd (“NUZ”), Nu Horizons Electronics Asia Pte Ltd., Korea Branch (“NUK”), Nu Horizons Electronics Hong Kong Ltd. (“NUHK”), Nu Horizons Electronics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. (“NUS”), Nu Horizons Europe Limited (“NUE”), DT Electronics Limited (“DT”), Titan Supply Chain Services Corp. (“Titan”), Titan Supply Chain Services PTE LTD (“TSC”), Titan Supply Chain Services Limited (“TSE”), Razor Electronics (“RAZ”), Nu Exchange (“NUX”) and its majority owned subsidiaries, NIC Components Europe Limited (“NIE”), and NIC Components Asia PTE LTD. (“NIA”) are engaged in the distribution of, and supply chain services for, high technology active and passive electronic components. All references in this report to “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” are to Nu Horizons Electronics Corp. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Active components distributed by the Company, principally to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in the United States, include mainly commercial semiconductor products such as memory chips, microprocessors, digital and linear circuits, microwave, RF and fiber-optic components, transistors and diodes. Passive components distributed by NIC, principally to OEMs and other distributors nationally, consist of a high technology line of chip and leaded components, including capacitors, resistors and related networks. The active and passive components distributed by the Company are utilized by the electronics industry and other industries in the manufacture of sophisticated electronic products including: industrial instrumentation, computers and peripheral equipment, consumer electronics, telephone and telecommunications equipment, satellite communications equipment, cellular communications equipment, medical equipment, automotive electronics, and audio and video electronic equipment. Manufacturers of electronic components augment their marketing programs through the use of independent distributors and supply chain service providers such as the Company, upon which the Company believes they rely to a considerable extent to market and deliver their products. The Company offers its customers the convenience of diverse inventories, rapid delivery, design and technical assistance, inventory management, forecasting and logistical services and the availability of product in smaller quantities than generally available directly from manufacturers. Generally, companies engaged in the distribution of active and passive electronic components, such as the Company, are required to maintain a relatively significant investment in inventories and accounts receivable. To meet these requirements, the Company, like other companies in the industry, typically depends on internally generated funds as well as external borrowings. 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Continued): Management’s policy is to manage, maintain and control the bulk of its inventories from its principal headquarters and stocking facilities in Melville (Long Island), New York, Southaven, Mississippi, San Jose, California, Singapore, Coventry, England, and Buckingham, England. As additional franchise line opportunities become available to the Company, the need for branch level inventories may be necessary and desirable in order to better serve the specific needs of local markets. Semiconductor Products (Active Components): The Company is a distributor of a broad range of semiconductor products to commercial and military OEM’s, principally in the United States. The Company is a franchised distributor of active components for approximately 35 product lines. Significant franchised product lines include Allegro, Exar, IDT, Linear Technologies, Marvel, Pericom, Renesas, Sharp Microelectronics, ST Microelectronics, Sun Microsystems, TDK Semiconductor, Toshiba, Vitesse Semiconductor, Oki Semiconductor, ON Semiconductor and Xilinx, among others. The Company’s franchise agreements authorize it to sell all or part of the product line of a manufacturer on a non-exclusive basis. Under these agreements, each manufacturer will generally grant credits for any subsequent price reduction by such manufacturer and inventory return privileges whereby the Company can return to each such manufacturer for credit or exchange a percentage, generally ranging from 5% to 20%, of the inventory purchased from said manufacturer during a semi-annual period. The franchise agreements generally may be cancelled by either party upon written notice. The Company anticipates, in the future, entering into additional franchise agreements and increasing its inventory levels in accordance with business demands. Financial information regarding the Company’s reportable segments and foreign and domestic operations can be found in Note 14 of the Notes to the Company’s financial statements. Passive Components and Relationship with Nippon: NIC has been the exclusive outlet in North America for Nippon Industries Co. Ltd.’s (Japan) (“Nippon”) brand of passive components, with a license for the use of the Nippon brand. The Company has a License Agreement with Nippon dated as of September 1, 2000 under which the Company has been granted an exclusive license to use the Nippon brand in the United States, Mexico, Central and South America and the Caribbean. The License Agreement has an initial term of ten years and automatically renews for successive one-year periods unless the Company or Nippon terminates the License Agreement 90 days prior to the end of the initial or any renewal term. Due to certain market situations, NIC, with Nippon’s consent, has also established several manufacturing associations with U.S. and Taiwan based manufacturers to supply NIC with a portion of its product requirements under the NIC brand. NIC intends to continue to give Nippon priority, however, in acquiring Nippon’s products whenever Nippon’s technology and pricing are commensurate with market requirements. Sales and Marketing: Management’s strategy for long-term success has been to focus the Company’s sales and marketing efforts towards the following industry segments, both domestically and abroad: industrial, telecom/datacom, medical instrumentation, microwave and RF, fiber-optic, consumer electronics, security and protection devices, office equipment, computers and computer peripherals, factory automation and robotics. In order to help achieve its goals, the Company may enter into new franchise agreements for a broad base of commodity semiconductor products, including those used in the key niche industries referred to above. All sales are made through customers’ purchase orders. Semiconductors are sold primarily via telephone by the Company’s in-house staff of approximately 125 salespersons, and by a combined field sales force of approximately 279 salespersons and field application engineers. The Company maintains branch sales facilities located as follows: 4 ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Continued): Sales and Marketing (continued): UNITED STATES: EAST COAST Massachusetts - Boston New York - Melville (Long Island) and Rochester New Jersey - Mt. Laurel (Philadelphia) and Pine Brook Ohio - Cleveland Maryland - Columbia North Carolina - Raleigh Georgia - Atlanta Alabama - Huntsville Florida - Ft. Lauderdale and Orlando MIDWEST Arizona - Phoenix Colorado - Denver Illinois - Chicago Minnesota - Minneapolis Texas - Austin, Dallas WEST COAST California - Irvine, Los Angeles, San Diego and San Jose Oregon - Portland Washington State - Bellevue FOREIGN: CANADA Toronto ASIA Singapore Hong Kong, Beijing Wuhan, China - Chendu, Nanjing, Shanghai and Shenzhen Seoul, S. Korea India - Bangalore, Pune, New Delhi and Hyderabad Penang, Malaysia Taipei, Taiwan Bangkok, Thailand AUSTRALIA Melbourne Sydney EUROPE Buckingham, England Coventry, England Munich, Germany (April 2007) MEXICO Jalisco Chihuahua NIC’s passive components are marketed through the services of a national network of approximately 20 independent sales representative organizations, employing over 200 salespersons, as well as through NIC’s in-house sales and engineering personnel. The independent representative organizations do not represent competing product lines but sell other related products. Commissions to such organizations generally range from 2% to 3% of all sales in a representative’s exclusive territory. NIC has developed a national network of 3 global distributors and approximately 25 regional distributor locations which market passive components on a non-exclusive basis. These distributors have entered into agreements with NIC whereby they are required to purchase from NIC a prescribed initial inventory. These distributors are protected by NIC against price reductions and are granted certain inventory return and other privileges, which to date have not been material. Due to the efforts of NIC and its distributors, NIC’s passive components have been tested and “designed in” as a prime source of qualified product by over 7,000 OEMs in the United States. Customer Concentration: No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated sales for the year ended February 28, 2007. The Company’s sales practice is to require payment within thirty days of delivery. Source of Supply: The Company inventories an extensive stock of active and passive components; however, if the Company’s customers order products for which the Company does not maintain inventory, the Company’s marketing strategy is to obtain such products from its franchise manufacturers, or, if a product is unobtainable, to identify and recommend satisfactory interchangeable alternative components. For this purpose, the Company devotes considerable efforts to familiarizing itself with component product movement throughout the industry, as well as to constant monitoring of its own inventories. 5 ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Continued): Source of Supply (continued): As of February 28, 2007, there were three manufacturers that each represented more than 10% of the Company’s inventory on a consolidated basis. Those suppliers accounted for an aggregate of approximately $66,996,000 of total inventory. Electronic components distributed by the Company generally are presently readily available; however, from time to time the electronics industry has experienced a shortage or surplus of certain electronic products. For the year ended February 28, 2007, the Company purchased inventory from each of three suppliers that was in excess of 10% of the Company’s total purchases. Purchases from these suppliers were approximately $121,160,000, $111,522,000 and $62,745,000 for the fiscal year. Competition and Regulation: The Company competes with many companies that distribute semiconductor and passive electronic components and, to a lesser extent, companies that manufacture such products and sell them directly to OEMs and other distributors. The Company also competes for customers with some of its own suppliers. Many of these companies have substantially greater assets and possess greater financial and personnel resources than those of the Company. In addition, certain of these companies possess independent franchise agreements to carry semiconductor product lines which the Company does not carry, but which it may desire to have. Competition is based primarily upon inventory availability, quality of service, knowledge of product and price. The Company believes that the distribution of passive electronic components under its own label is a competitive advantage. The Company’s competitive ability to price its imported active and passive components could be adversely affected by increases in tariffs, duties, changes in the United States’ trade treaties with Japan, Taiwan or other foreign countries, transportation strikes and the adoption of Federal laws containing import restrictions. In addition, the cost of the Company’s imports could be subject to governmental controls and international currency fluctuations. Because imports are paid for with U.S. dollars, the decline in value of United States currency as against foreign currencies would cause increases in the dollar prices of the Company’s imports from Japan and other foreign countries. Although the Company has not experienced any material adverse effect to date in its ability to compete or maintain its profit margins as a result of any of the foregoing factors, no assurance can be given that such factors will not have a material adverse effect in the future. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated thereunder by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market have imposed substantial new or enhanced regulations and disclosure requirements in the areas of corporate governance (including director independence, director selection and audit, corporate governance and compensation committee responsibilities), equity compensation plans, auditor independence, pre-approval of auditor fees and services and disclosure and internal control procedures. We are committed to industry best practices in these areas and believe we are in compliance with the relevant rules and regulations. Backlog: The Company defines backlog as orders, believed to be firm, received from customers and scheduled for shipment, no later than 60 days for active components and no later than 90 days for passive components, from the date of the order. As of May 1, 2007, the Company’s backlog was approximately $116,000,000 as compared to a backlog of approximately $75,000,000 at May 1, 2006. Employees: As of February 28, 2007, the Company employed approximately 748 persons: 67 in management, 413 in sales and sales support, 66 in product and purchasing, 58 in finance, accounting and human resources, 21 in management information systems, 19 in operations and 104 in quality control, shipping, receiving and warehousing. The Company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. Available Information: We file reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C., 20549. The public may obtain information about the operation of the SEC’s public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information about issuers such as us that file electronically with the SEC. 6 ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Continued): In addition, we make available free of charge on our website at http://www.nuhorizons.com our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) under the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct applicable to the Company’s officers and employees, and has also adopted a Code of Ethics for its senior financial officers. These codes of conduct and ethics are posted on the Company’s website at www.nuhorizons.com in the Investor Relations section. Any amendment of the codes of conduct and ethics or waiver thereof applicable to any director or executive officer of the Company, including the Chief Executive Officer or any senior financial officer, will be disclosed on the Company’s website within four business days of the date of such amendment or waiver. In the case of a waiver, the nature of the waiver, the name of the person to whom the waiver was granted and the date of the waiver will also be disclosed. The Board of Directors has also adopted, and we have posted in the Investor Relations section of our website, written Charters for each of the Board’s standing committees. We will provide without charge, upon a stockholder’s request to 70 Maxess Rd., Melville, NY 11747, Attention: Secretary, a copy of the Company's codes of ethics or the Charter of any standing committee of the Board. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: Risk Factors: A large portion of the Company’s revenues come from sales of semiconductors, which is a highly cyclical industry, and an industry down-cycle could adversely affect its operating results. The semiconductor industry historically has experienced periodic fluctuations in product supply and demand, often associated with changes in technology and manufacturing capacity, and is generally considered to be highly cyclical. The Company’s revenue closely follows the strength or weakness of the semiconductor market. The Company’s total sales of electronic components in the last five fiscal years have increased from approximately $302,000,000 in fiscal year 2003 to $737,463,000 in fiscal year 2007. Although the Company’s and the industry’s sales have been on an upward trend, a technology industry downcycle, particularly in the semiconductor sector, could adversely affect the Company’s operating results in the future. If the Company is unable to maintain its relationships with key suppliers, the Company’s sales could be adversely affected. In fiscal 2007, purchases of products and services from each of three suppliers exceeded 10% of the Company’s purchases on a consolidated basis. As a result, in the event that one or more of those suppliers experience financial difficulties or are not willing to do business with the Company in the future on terms acceptable to management, there could be a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Additionally, the Company’s relationships with its customers could be materially adversely affected because the Company’s customers depend on the Company’s distribution of electronic components and computer products from the industry’s leading suppliers. Declines in the value of the Company’s inventory could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The electronic components and computer products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced products and evolving industry standards, which can contribute to decline in value or obsolescence of inventory. During an economic downturn it is possible that prices will decline due to an oversupply of product and, therefore, there may be greater risk of declines in inventory value. Although it is the policy of many of the Company’s suppliers to offer certain protections from the loss in value of inventory (such as price protection, limited rights of return, and rebates), the Company cannot assure you that that the vendors will choose to, or be able to, honor such agreements or that such return policies and rebates will fully compensate it for the loss in value. The Company cannot assure you that unforeseen new product developments or declines in the value of its inventory will not materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, or that the Company will successfully manage its existing and future inventories. 7 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued): The volume and timing of customer sales may vary and could materially affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The volume and timing of purchase orders placed by the Company’s customers are affected by a number of factors, including variation in demand for customers’ products, customer attempts to manage inventory, changes in product design or specifications and changes in the customers’ manufacturing strategies. The Company often does not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments but instead works with its customers to develop nonbinding forecasts of future requirements. Based on such nonbinding forecasts, the Company makes commitments regarding the level of business that it will seek and accept, the timing of production schedules and the levels and utilization of personnel and other resources. A variety of conditions, both specific to each individual customer and generally affecting each customer’s industry, may cause customers to cancel, reduce or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated. Generally, customers may cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty, except for payment for services rendered or products completed and, in certain circumstances, payment for materials purchased and charges associated with such cancellation, reduction or delay. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers, or any inability by customers to pay for services provided by the Company or to pay for components and materials purchased by it on such customers’ behalf, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Substantial defaults by the Company’s customers on the Company’s accounts receivable could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of the Company’s working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. The electronics component and computer industries are highly competitive and if the Company cannot effectively compete, its revenue may decline. The market for the Company’s products and services is very competitive and subject to rapid technological advances. Not only does the Company compete with other distributors, it also competes for customers with some of its own suppliers. The Company’s failure to maintain and enhance its competitive position could adversely affect its business and prospects. Some of the Company’s competitors may have greater financial, personnel, capacity and other resources than it has. As a result, the Company’s competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Additional competition has emerged from third party logistics providers, fulfillment companies, catalogue distributors and on-line distributors and brokers. Additionally, prices for the Company’s products tend to decrease over their life cycle. Such decreases often result in decreased gross profit margins for the Company. There is also substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce their total cost for products. Suppliers may also seek to reduce the Company’s margins on the sale of their products in order to increase their own profitability. The Company expends substantial amounts on the value creation services required to remain competitive, retain existing business and gain new customers, and the Company must evaluate the expense of those efforts against the impact of price and margin reductions. Further, the manufacturing of electronic components and computer products is increasingly shifting to lower-cost production facilities in Asia, most notably China. Suppliers in Asia have traditionally had lower gross profit margins than those in the United States and Europe, and typically charge lower prices in the Asian markets for their products, which places pressure on the Company to lower its prices to meet competition. Thus, the Company’s consolidated gross profit margins have declined over time, from 18.3% in fiscal 2003, to 15.3% in fiscal 2007. If the Company is unable to effectively compete in its industry or is unable to maintain acceptable gross profit margins, its business could be materially adversely affected. 8 ITEM1A. RISK FACTORS (continued): The Company may not have adequate or cost-effective liquidity or capital resources. The Company needs cash to make interest payments on and to refinance indebtedness, and for general corporate purposes, such as funding its ongoing working capital and capital expenditure needs. At February 28, 2007, the Company had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of approximately $5,000,000. In addition, the Company currently has access to credit lines of $180,000,000, of which $30,000,000 is currently being borrowed. The Company’s ability to satisfy its cash needs depends on its ability to generate cash from operations and to access the financial markets, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. The Company may in the future need to access the financial markets to satisfy its cash needs. Under the terms of any external financing, the Company may incur higher than expected financing expenses and become subject to additional restrictions and covenants. For example, the Company’s existing debt agreements contain restrictive covenants, including covenants requiring compliance with specified financial ratios and a failure to comply with these or any other covenants may result in an event of default. An increase in the Company’s financing costs or a breach of debt instrument covenants could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The agreements governing the Company’s financings contain various covenants and restrictions that, in certain circumstances, could limit its ability to: · grant liens on assets; · make restricted payments (including paying dividends on capital stock or redeeming or repurchasing capital stock); · make investments; · merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of its assets; · incur additional debt; or · engage in certain transactions with affiliates. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, the Company may be limited in how it conducts its business and may be unable to raise additional debt, compete effectively, make investments, or engage in other activities that may be beneficial to its business. Products sold by the Company may be found to be defective and, as a result, warranty and/or product liability claims may be asserted against the Company which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Products sold by the Company are at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Since a defect or failure in a product could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them (and claims for consequential damages against the Company from its customers), the Company may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the sales and profits it receives from the products involved. While the Company and its suppliers specifically exclude consequential damages in their standard terms and conditions, the Company’s ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by the laws of some of the countries where it does business. The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected as a result of a significant quality or performance issue in the products sold by the Company, if it is required to pay for the damages that result. Although the Company currently has product liability insurance, such insurance is limited in coverage and amount. The Company’s non-U.S. locations represent a significant portion of the Company’s revenue, and consequently, we are increasingly exposed to risks associated with operating internationally. The Company's operations outside the United States generated approximately 25% of sales in fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005. As a result of the Company’s foreign sales and locations, the Company’s operations are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: · potential restrictions on transfers of funds; · foreign currency fluctuations; · import and export duties and value added taxes; · import and export regulation changes that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; · changing foreign tax laws and regulations; · potential military conflicts; · inflexible employee contracts in the event of business downturns; and · the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws. 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued): Manufacturing of electronic component and computer products is increasingly shifting to lower-cost production facilities in Asia, and most notably the People’s Republic of China. The Company’s business and prospects have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the shift to the Asian marketplace. In addition, we have operations in several locations in emerging or developing economies that have a potential for higher risk. The Company may not adequately manage its international operations. The Company anticipates that its foreign subsidiaries will engage in substantial regional operations. The Company currently manages its Asian and European subsidiaries, and plans to continue to manage future foreign subsidiaries, on a decentralized basis, with local and regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the growth of these subsidiaries. If the Company fails to maintain or implement effective controls, it may experience inconsistencies in the operating and financial practices among its subsidiaries, which may harm its business, results of operations and liquidity. If the Company is unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate its businesses, its ability to compete successfully will be adversely affected. The Company is heavily dependent on its current executive officers, management and technical personnel. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company’s ability to execute its current business plans. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the Company might not be able to retain its existing key employees or attract and retain any additional personnel. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discovers material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting, it may not be able to report its financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and is important in its efforts to prevent financial fraud. The Company is required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of its internal controls over financial reporting. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls including collusion, management override, and failure of human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm was to discover material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls, it may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ. Any such actions could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements, which could cause the market price of its common stock to decline or limit the Company’s access to other forms of capital. The Company relies heavily on its internal information systems which, if not properly functioning, could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s current global operations reside on the Company’s technology platforms. Any of these systems are subject to electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. Failure of its internal information systems or material difficulties in upgrading its global financial system could have material adverse effects on the Company’s business. The Company’s response to the subpoenas received from the Securities Exchange Commission may require a significant amount of management time and attention and significant expenditure of funds, which may disrupt or have a negative impact on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Both the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary Titan Supply Chain Services received subpoenas from the SEC on April 13, 2007 in an action captioned “In the Matter of Vitesse Semiconductor Corp.” requiring them to produce documents related to their business relationship with Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. The Company and Titan are cooperating fully with the SEC which may require a significant amount of management time and attention, which could disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. In addition, the response to the subpoenas may require the Company to expend significant amounts for professional fees and related expenses, which expenditures may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Further, the review of information by the SEC may result in additional inquiries. 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. ITEM 