Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT COSMO’S OPERATING RESULTS, BUSINESS PROSPECTS AND STOCK PRICE Before you buy or sell Cosmo stock, you should be aware that there are risks, including those described below and others Cosmo has not anticipated or discussed. You should consider carefully these and other risk factors, together with all of the other information included in Cosmo’s filings with the SEC and Cosmo’s periodic press releases, before you decide to buy or sell shares of Cosmo’s common stock. As you consider these risk factors, Cosmo also calls your attention to Cosmo’s statements about Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Part I of this Annual Report. We have significant working capital needs and if we are unable to obtain additional financing when needed, we may not have sufficient cash flow to continue operations. As of July 26, 2006, our cash on hand is limited. We will finance our working capital needs from the collection of accounts receivable, and sales of existing inventory. See "Liquidity" beginning on page 22. As of March 31, 2006, our inventory was valued at $4 million. If these sources do not provide us with adequate financing, we will be seeking financing from our factories. If we are not able to obtain adequate financing from our factories when needed, it will have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to continue operations. A small number of our customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these key customers could significantly reduce our revenues and cash flow. We rely on a small number of customers to provide a substantial portion of our revenues. As a percentage of total revenues, our net sales to our 5 largest customers during the fiscal period ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 were approximately 95% and 96% respectively. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with any of our customers and they can cancel their orders at any time prior to delivery. A substantial reduction in or termination of orders from our largest customers would decrease our revenues and cash flow significantly. We rely on Starlight to manufacture and produce the majority of our CD players, DVD players and television sets and if Starlight does not support our delivery schedule, it would affect our revenues and profitability. We believe that because Starlight has a substantial investment in our operation they will support us unconditionally. In the event of disruption in its factory, Starlight will source outside factories to manufacture our products but we risk losing sales and goodwill to our customers. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to pressure from our customers relating to price reduction and financial incentive and if we are pressured to make these concessions to our customers, it will reduce our revenues and profitability. Because there is intense competition in the consumer electronic market, we are subject to pricing pressure from our customers. Many of our customers have demanded that we lower our prices or they will purchase from our competitor's products. If we do not meet our customer's demands for lower prices, we will not sell as many products. We are also subject to pressure from our customers regarding certain financial incentives, such as return credits or advertising allowances, which effectively reduce our profit. We gave advertising allowances in the amount of $233,000 during fiscal 2006 and $303,000 during fiscal 2005. We have historically offered advertising allowances to our customers because it is standard practice in the retail industry. We experience difficulty forecasting the demand for our products and if we do not accurately forecast demand, our revenues, net income and cash flow may be affected. Because of our reliance on manufacturers in China for our products, our production lead times range from one to four months. Therefore, we must commit to production in advance of customers orders. It is difficult to forecast customer demand because we do not have any scientific or quantitative method to predict this demand. Our forecasting is based on management's general expectations about customer demand, the general strength of the retail market and management's historical experiences. In the past, our experienced management team has been able to plan our production and inventory requirements without building excessively high inventory. Our gross profit margins have decreased over the past year and we expect a continued competitive market in the future. Over the past year, our gross profit margins have generally decreased due to price competition. We expect that our gross profit margin might decrease under downward pressure in fiscal 2007 but we are also putting pressure on our manufacturers to lower their production costs. Based on past experience, we expect that we can pass on the price pressure to our manufacturers. Our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday season. Sales of consumer electronics in the retail channel are highly seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December in anticipation of the holiday season, which includes Christmas. A substantial majority of our sales occur during the second quarter ended September 30 and the third quarter ended December 31. Sales in our second and third quarter, combined, accounted for approximately 89% and 73% of total sales in fiscal 2006 and 2005 respectively. 13 Table of Contents If Cosmo does not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products, sales may decrease. The consumer electronic industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and ongoing customer demands for greater performance. In addition, the average selling price of an electronic product has historically decreased over its life cycle, and we expect that trend to continue. As a result, our products may not be competitive if we fail to introduce new products or product enhancements that meet evolving customer demands. The development of new products is complex, and we may not be able to complete development in a timely manner. To introduce products on a timely basis, we must: · accurately define and design new products to meet market needs; · design features that continue to differentiate our products from those of our competitors; · update our manufacturing process technologies; · identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; · anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers' products; · introduce products to market on a timely basis at competitive prices; and · respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. We believe that we will need to continue to enhance our products and develop new merchandise to keep pace with competition, technological developments, and to achieve market acceptance for our products. At the same time, we are identifying other products which may be different from audio and video equipment. Our products are shipped from China and any disruption of shipping could prevent or delay our customers’ receipt of inventory. We rely principally on independent ocean carriers to ship virtually all of the products that we import to our warehouse facility in Toronto, Canada. Retailers that take delivery of our products in China rely on a variety of carriers to import those products. Any disruptions in shipping, whether in Toronto or China, caused by labor strikes, other labor disputes, terrorism, and international incidents may prevent or delay our customers' receipt of inventory. If our customers do not receive their inventory on a timely basis, they may cancel their orders or return products to us. Consequently, our revenues and net income would be affected. 14 Table of Contents Our manufacturing operations are located in the People’s Republic of China, subjecting us to risks common in international operations. If there is any problem with the manufacturing process, our revenues and net profitability may be affected. We are using 12 factories in the People's Republic of China to manufacture the majority of our products. These factories will be producing all of our products in fiscal 2007. Our arrangements with these factories are subject to the risks of running business abroad, such as import duties, trade restrictions, work stoppages, and foreign currency fluctuations, limitations on the repatriation of earnings and political instability, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have limited control over the manufacturing processes themselves. As a result, any difficulties encountered by our third-party manufacturers that result in product defects, production delays, cost overruns or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow. Also, since we do not have written agreements with any of these factories, we are subject to additional uncertainty if the factories do not deliver products to us on a timely basis. We depend on third party suppliers for parts for our products, and if we cannot obtain supplies as needed, our operations will be severely damaged. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of our electronic products. We rely on third party suppliers to produce the parts and materials we use to manufacture and produce these products. If our suppliers are unable to provide our factories with the parts and supplies, we will be unable to produce our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to purchase the parts we need at reasonable prices or in a timely fashion. In the last several years, there have been shortages of certain components that we use in our DVD players. If we are unable to anticipate any shortages of parts and materials in the future, we may experience severe production problems, which would impact our sales. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties, and if these customers are unable to pay us, our revenues and profitability will be reduced. We sell products to retailers, including department stores, hardware stores and specialty stores. In the past, we have been diligent to screen credit worthiness of our customers and experience of bad debts has been insignificant. Deterioration in the financial condition of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and future profitability. Our common stock currently is not actively traded on the OTC bulletin board. Our common stock is inactive and has no bid and ask price. We believe that if we can establish a pattern of profitability in the near future, our common stock may be more actively traded. 15 Table of Contents The loss of their largest customer or significant reductions in their purchases of Cosmo’s products would reduce sales. This significant customer accounts for 91%, 88% and 92% of Cosmo’s sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Cosmo anticipates that this customer will continue to account for a significant portion of Cosmo’s sales for the foreseeable future, but is not obligated to any long-term purchases. They have considerable discretion to reduce, change or terminate purchases of Cosmo’s products. Cosmo cannot be certain that it will retain this customer or maintain a favorable relationship. If Cosmo fails to manage its inventory effectively, Cosmo could incur additional costs or lose sales. Cosmo customers have many brands to choose from when they decide to order products. If Cosmo cannot deliver products quickly and reliably, customers will order from a competitor. Cosmo must stock enough inventories to fill orders promptly, which increases Cosmo’s financing requirements and the risk of inventory obsolescence. Because competition has forced Cosmo to shorten its product life cycles and more rapidly introduce new and enhanced products, while simultaneously sourcing more products overseas and carrying larger inventories, there is a significant risk that Cosmo’s inventory could become obsolete. Currency fluctuations may reduce the profitability of Cosmo’s foreign sales. Cosmo currently makes sales to Canadian and certain European dealers and distributors in their respective currencies. However, as part of the transition to local distributors, an increasing portion of Cosmo’s sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. If Cosmo is unsuccessful in its transition to distributors, Cosmo’s exposure to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions will continue. Cosmo does not trade in derivatives or other financial instruments to reduce currency risks. In some instances this will subject Cosmo’s earnings to fluctuations because Cosmo is not protected against substantial currency fluctuations. Item 