ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, careful consideration of the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or future results, is recommended. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from 12 Table of Contents anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. • A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts or subcontracts funded by the U.S. government. The following table lists the approximate revenues, as a percentage of our total revenues, derived from contracts funded by the U.S. government and by one particular agency of the U.S. government, the Department of the Air Force, for fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007. Time Period Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the U.S. government Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the Departmentof the Air Force Fiscal year 2009 79% 75% Fiscal year 2008 82% 53% Fiscal year 2007 80% 56% We expect that U.S. government business, primarily derived from Department of the Air Force contracts and subcontracts, is likely to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the future. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by changing U.S. government procurement practices and policies as well as declines in U.S. government civilian and defense agency spending. The factors that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win new contracts with the U.S. government, or retain existing contracts, include the following: • budgetary constraints; • changes in U.S. government funding levels, programs, policies, or requirements; • technological developments; • changes in level of U.S. government funds available for services that we provide; • the adoption of new laws or regulations; and • global economic conditions. Some of our U.S. government contracts individually contribute a significant percentage of our revenues. Our two largest contracts with the Department of the Air Force represents approximately 40.6% of our revenues for fiscal year 2009 and a small number of other large U.S. government contracts are likely to continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in the future. Termination of any of these contracts or our inability to renew or replace these contracts when they expire for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination without cause by the U.S. government. All of our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination by the U.S. government for “convenience,” which means termination without cause. Should the U.S. government terminate a contract without cause, we would be reimbursed for allowable costs incurred through the date of termination and would be paid a proportionate amount of the stipulated profits or fees attributable to work actually performed. Termination of any of our significant U.S. government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to U.S. government regulations and audits. U.S. government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing U.S. government contracts. Any violation of these regulations by us could result in the termination of the contracts, imposition of fines, or exclusion from U.S. government contracting and U.S. government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. 13 Table of Contents • Government audits of our contracts, which include the acceptance of our reimbursable rates relating to fringe benefits, overhead, and selling, general and administrative expenses, could result in a material charge to our earnings and have a negative effect on our cash position following an audit adjustment. Our Government Systems cost-plus contracts are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to perform services under contracts with the U.S. government. Cost-based pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which provides guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services and allowability and allocability of costs to contracts awarded by the U.S. government. We have incurred allocable costs that we believe are allowable and reimbursable under our cost-plus-fee contracts, and are included in our revenue. These costs are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), therefore revenue recognized on our cost-plus contracts is subject to adjustment upon audit by DCAA. We established a revenue reserve of $3.9 million in fiscal year 2009 based on the potential risk of unfavorable audit adjustments. Our Columbia-based government operations have been audited by the DCAA through the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005. Our RT Logic subsidiary has been audited by the DCAA through September 30, 2006. Unfavorable audit results could result in a material charge to our earnings and have a negative effect on our cash position following an audit adjustment. • U.S. government regulations require us to inform the government whenever we have credible evidence of a violation of certain federal criminal laws or a violation of the civil False Claims Act in connection with our government contracts and subcontracts. We are required to self-report to the U.S. government any overpayments on our U.S. government contracts, and to inform the appropriate federal agency inspector general whenever we have credible evidence of a violation of certain federal criminal laws or the civil False Claims Act in connection with our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. Any such disclosures by us could subject us to a formal investigation, fines and civil or criminal prosecution, which could require significant management attention and legal resources and could have a material adverse effect on us. The knowing failure to timely disclose to the U.S. government credible evidence of a violation of certain federal criminal laws or the civil False Claims Act in connection with our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts, or a significant overpayment on one of our contracts, could result in our exclusion from U.S. government contracting and U.S. government-approved subcontracting for some specific period. • Performance of some of our U.S. government contracts may require security clearances. Certain of our contracts with U.S. government agencies require that some of our employees and procedures meet security clearance requirements. If problems develop meeting security clearance requirements, those problems could materially limit our ability to perform these contracts. • Some of our contracts are subject to security classification restrictions. We derive some of our revenues and profits from programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (restricted business), which could limit our ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors might have less insight into our restricted business than our other businesses or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with restricted business. • The estimated backlog under our U.S. government contracts is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under those contracts. Many of our U.S. government contracts are multi-year contracts and contracts with option years, and portions of these contracts are carried forward from one year to the next as part of our contract backlog. Backlog means the total value of all contracts less the revenues earned to date on those contracts. The estimated backlog under a U.S. government contract is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under that contract. Congress normally appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis, even though actual contract performance may take many years. As a result, contracts ordinarily are only partially funded at the time 14 Table of Contents of award, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the contracting agency as Congress makes appropriations in subsequent fiscal years. It is possible that Congress will not appropriate funds or that procuring agencies will not commit funds to our U.S. government contracts for their anticipated terms. In addition, most of our U.S. government contracts have an initial term of one year plus a number of option years. The U.S. government may not extend a particular contract through its option years. Certain of our large contracts provide that we will not receive payment until the services under those contracts are requested and performed. Cancellations or adjustments in the terms of these contracts could occur. In addition, our services under these contracts may not be requested at currently anticipated levels in the future. • Our contracts and subcontracts are generally subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Our contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, these contracts may be subject, once again, to a competitive renewal process if applicable. We may not be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace existing contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts with U.S. government agencies are subject to competition and awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience, and price. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected to the extent that U.S. government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new U.S. government contract awards are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of the subject contract to a competitor, or the reopening of the sealed bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring U.S. government contracts. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to the budget and funding process of the U.S. government. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years but are funded only on an annual basis. Accordingly, our contracts and subcontracts are subject to termination, reduction, or modification in the event of changes in the U.S. government’s requirements funding priorities or budgetary constraints. Budget decisions by the U.S. government may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. If one or more of our programs is reduced, extended, or terminated, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional funding and are typically subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding. Congress usually allocates funds on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take several years. At the onset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional funds are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency as funds are made available by Congress for future fiscal years. Contractors often experience revenue uncertainties during the first quarter of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, which begins October 1, until differences between budget requests and appropriations are resolved. To date, Congress has funded all years of the multi-year major program contracts for which we have served as prime contractor or subcontractor, but this may not continue in the future. • The current federal administration may continue to reduce aerospace and defense spending, which could adversely affect our business. Defense spending has been reduced since the current federal administration took office in January 2009. If defense spending continues to be reduced, our existing contracts or our ability to win additional defense contracts could be affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents • We are experiencing delays in the timeframes in which funding increases on our existing contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government are approved, and in which new contracts with the U.S. government are awarded. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts and subcontracts funded by the U.S. government and is subject to the budget and funding process of the U.S. government. During fiscal year 2009, the timing of receipt of funding increases on our existing contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government was delayed in comparison to historical timeframes. Furthermore, the award of new contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. government has not occurred within the timeframes initially anticipated. As a result of these delays and the substantial completion of work on several existing contracts, our backlog has declined since the end of fiscal year 2008. Delays in the authorization of funding for our existing contracts and subcontracts funded by the U.S. government, and delays in the award of new contracts and subcontracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from the sale of services and products to commercial and government customers. Many of our contracts are for a fixed price and can subject us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. Our revenues on fixed-price contracts are generally recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis and we calculate an estimate of completion to determine revenue for each fixed-price project. As a result, contract price and cost estimates on fixed-price contracts are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in income in the period when the estimates are revised. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance on a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. • Financial difficulties experienced by our commercial customers may adversely affect our ability to collect payments on our commercial contracts. Many companies are experiencing financial difficulty in the current economic environment. We are experiencing delays in the receipt of payment from some of our contracts. One of our commercial customers recently declared bankruptcy, which caused us to establish a bad debt reserve of $1.1 million and not recognize revenue for work performed during the third quarter of 2009, for this customer. Other customers may experience financial difficulty, which could adversely affect our ability to collect payment on our commercial contracts. Delays in payments can adversely affect our cash flows and our results of operations. In addition, if commercial customers become unable to pay us, non-payments could exceed our allowance for doubtful accounts, which is based on our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses. If that occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. • Our commercial contracts are subject to competition, strict performance obligations and other requirements. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. Our failure to meet these performance obligations and milestones permits the other party to terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us, any of which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Intense competition in the satellite ground systems industry could harm our financial performance. The satellite ground system industry is very competitive and marked by continuous technological challenges. Several large aerospace/defense contractors have developed satellite control systems either in-house as primary contractors or through subcontractors. As a result, some of our competitors are also current or potential customers. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of large, diversified companies that have 16 Table of Contents access to the financial resources of their parent companies. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies or maintain them as customers while competing with them on other contracts. In addition, several smaller companies have specialized capabilities that compete with the capabilities we offer through our products and services. Our products also face competition from certain off-the-shelf products developed by the U.S. government for satellite command and control. We cannot predict how our competitive position may be affected by changing economic or competitive conditions, customer requirements, or technological developments. We principally obtain contracts and subcontracts through competitive procurements offered by the U.S. government or commercial enterprises. We may not be able to compete successfully. • We are subject to risks associated with our growth strategy of acquiring other companies. We will continue to look for complementary businesses to acquire so that we can strengthen and expand our core business; however, we may not be able to find any attractive candidates or favorable acquisition terms proposed by potential acquisition candidates. We may compete with other companies for these acquisition candidates, which may make an acquisition more expensive for us. Instability in the U.S. securities markets and volatility in our stock price may make acquisitions with our stock more expensive. If we seek to fund acquisitions with borrowed funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on favorable terms or at all, particularly in light of the current difficulties in the credit markets. If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable candidates, we may not be able to expand beyond the growth that we have experienced in the past several fiscal years. Accordingly, our acquisition strategy may not improve, and could possibly weaken, our overall business, financial condition, and results of operations. • We may be exposed to product liability or related claims with respect to our products. Our products are mission-critical parts of sophisticated and extremely expensive satellite and range safety systems. Should a satellite mission fail, should the system’s service become unavailable due to a failure or malfunction in the ground system, or should a space launch vehicle be destroyed as a result of malfunction, we could be sued for product liability or related claims. Moreover, we have found obtaining insurance to cover product liability claims to be impractical and not cost effective. Any product liability or related claim could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our products may become obsolete due to rapid technological change in the satellite industry. Any of our products could become obsolete at any time due to rapid technological changes in the satellite industry. In addition, we may not be able to update our products quickly enough to remain competitive. The rapid pace of technological change in our industry exposes us to risk of loss due to the development of superior technologies by our competitors. We are also dependent upon technologies developed by third parties for integrating our ground systems with a variety of satellite systems. To the extent that we cannot obtain necessary technologies from third parties, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, as land-based telecommunications services expand, demand for certain types of satellite-based services, such as the services we provide, may be reduced. New technology used by our competitors could render our satellite-based services less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in alternative ways or through the use of telecommunications standards that are incompatible with our products. In addition, our success depends on our ability to introduce innovative products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis. • Our international business exposes us to risks relating to increased regulation and political or economic instability in foreign markets. For fiscal year 2009, approximately 12% of our revenue was derived from our international operations. Conducting business in countries outside the United States carries additional managerial, operational, legal, and political risks. These operations are vulnerable to changes in government regulations and telecommunications standards, tariffs or taxes, and other trade barriers. Our agreements relating to foreign operations may be enforceable only in foreign jurisdictions, which could make it difficult for us to enforce our rights. We currently have several contracts that are subject to currency fluctuations in foreign markets. The value of these contracts is not material. To mitigate currency fluctuation, we may periodically use foreign currency 17 Table of Contents exchange contracts. If we enter into these types of contracts in the future, the limited availability of U.S. currency in certain local markets could prevent a contracting party from making payments to us in U.S. dollars or exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our revenues. We may not be able to enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate currency fluctuation in the future or, even if we do enter into such hedging transactions, they may not protect us from currency fluctuations. Various agencies and departments of the U.S. government regulate our ability to pursue business opportunities outside the United States. Exports of space-related products, services, and technical information require licenses granted by the U.S. government and are subject to International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). We do not currently have blanket authorization for export of our products and services and may not be able to obtain such authorization in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses or approvals on a per-transaction basis, and our inability to do so, or our failure to comply with the terms of the authorization when granted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials that we buy from suppliers. Through our RT Logic and Lumistar subsidiaries, we have several cooperation agreements with a French supplier for certain modem systems that we further customize and deliver to our customers. These agreements are subject to termination by either party. The agreements provide for the support of delivered product in the event of agreement termination. However, our business could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our supplier (such as the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees, or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms, and an unanticipated termination of the cooperation agreements could be disruptive to revenue attainment as we would be unable to bid on additional work that depends on these modems. • We depend upon attracting and retaining a highly skilled professional staff. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly in the area of information technology. We face significant competition for employees with the computer and technology skills required to perform our services and create our products. In addition, we must often comply with provisions in U.S. government contracts that require specified levels of education, work experience, and security clearances for our employees. We may not be successful in attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled and qualified employees in the future. For all of these reasons, the loss of our key technical personnel, or our inability in the future to attract key employees or to relocate them as required by customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We depend on the services of our key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree on our key management personnel, especially the following (titles as of fiscal year 2009): • Paul G. Casner, Jr., Chief Executive Officer and President • Major General (Ret.) H. Marshal Ward, Chief Operating Officer • William M. Bambarger, Jr., Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer • R. Miller Adams, General Counsel and Executive Vice President for Corporate Affairs • Stuart C. Daughtridge, Executive Vice President, Space Communications Systems Group • James B. Kramer, Senior Vice President, Commercial Systems Group We have employment agreements with all of these individuals, except for Paul G. Casner, Jr. and James B. Kramer. The loss of any one of these key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any members of management. 18 Table of Contents • We depend upon intellectual property rights and risk having our rights infringed. Much of our business is derived from work product, software programs, designs, algorithms, methodologies, and other information that we have privately developed. We have historically not sought patent protection for our software, hardware, and systems. Although we seek to protect our intellectual property with a combination of common law and registered trademarks and copyrights, and software license and confidentiality agreements with third parties, these measures may not prevent unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices, or procedures. There is also no guarantee that others may not independently develop similar knowledge, practices, or procedures. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Moreover, we do not have confidentiality agreements with all of our employees. Disclosure or loss of control over our privately developed information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims. Any litigation with respect to our intellectual property rights would be costly and could divert management’s attention, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Adverse determinations in litigation involving our intellectual property could: • result in the loss of our intellectual property rights; • subject us to significant liabilities; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; or • prevent us from selling our services or products. Any one of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Under some U.S. government contracts, we may develop software that in the future we may decide to commercialize. In order to commercialize that software, we might need to invest additional R&D funds to re-market the software as a commercial product. If the product was developed using any government funding, government regulations and contract provisions may prevent us from selling the resulting product to any government agencies. If the primary market for a potential product is government agencies, we may not be able to recover the invested funds through our sales of the product. In addition, the government may acquire certain rights to software programs we develop that are funded under government contracts or subcontracts and may disclose information with respect to those programs or products to third parties, including our competitors. • The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of securities of technology companies has historically faced significant volatility. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced the trading price of our common stock will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • growth rates; • changes in estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in our earnings and revenues or quarterly operating results; • announcements by competitors; • announcements, if any, with respect to our exploration of strategic alternatives; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Adverse developments with respect to any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents • Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size, and scope of our contracts; • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays; • employee productivity; • adequacy of provisions for losses; • accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing contracts; and • general economic conditions Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in a particular period. In this event, the market price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. • We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. Goodwill accounts for approximately $54.1 million, or 30.3%, of our recorded total assets as of September 25, 2009. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test involves the application of valuation methods which requires judgment regarding the appropriate inputs and assumptions and results in our best estimate of the fair value of a reporting unit. As with any estimate, inputs and assumptions can be subject to varying degrees of uncertainty. Principally, a decrease in the expected cash flows for a reporting unit or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If our goodwill were to become impaired, this could require substantial write downs and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • The disruption, expense, and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We may be subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time. Any litigation, regardless of its merits, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees being borne by us. Further, actions that have been or will be brought against us may not be resolved in our favor and, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, we may not have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruptions, legal fees, and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. • The global financial economy may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The recent global economic crisis has caused extreme volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted consumer spending levels. These macroeconomic developments could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Current and potential customers, including foreign governments, may delay or decrease spending on our products and services as their businesses and/or budgets are impacted by global economic conditions. • We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of our restatement of our financial statements. We and certain of our current and former officers are the subject of a purported class action lawsuit filed on December 15, 2008, following our December 11, 2008 announcement that we would be restating our unaudited interim financial statements for the first three quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, primarily due to an error in the accounting treatment for certain transactions with respect to the timing of the recognition 20 Table of Contents of revenue between periods due to specific warranty provisions in some of our contracts, accounting for the sale of software licenses and revenue associated with some reimbursable costs on government programs. The restatement of our previously issued interim unaudited financial statements could expose us to government investigation or additional legal action. The defense of the pending class action litigation and any other related actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our common stock to decline. • Failures in our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could lead to material errors in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Such controls are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that we are providing reliable financial reports. If such controls fail to operate effectively, this may result in material errors in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting may require remediation, which could be costly. Failure to remediate such deficiencies or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to government investigation or legal action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 