Item 1A. Risk Factors.” When considering the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements set forth in this Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are based upon a variety of assumptions relating to our business, which may not be realized. Because of the number and range of the assumptions underlying our forward-looking statements, many of which are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies beyond our reasonable control, some of the assumptions inevitably will not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur subsequent to the date of this document. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, and we assume no obligation to update. Therefore, our actual experience and the results achieved during the period covered by any particular forward-looking statement should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that these estimates will be realized, and actual results may vary materially. Some or all of these expectations may not be realized and any of the forward-looking statements contained herein may not prove to be accurate. Factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results are described below. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. • A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts or subcontracts funded by the U.S. government. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination without cause by the U.S. government. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to U.S. government regulations and audits. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to the budget and funding process of the U.S. government. • We enter into fixed-price contracts which could subject us to losses in the even that we have cost overruns. • Our commercial contracts are subject to competition and strict performance and other requirements. • We may not be able to effectively manage any continued growth. iii Table of Contents • Intense competition in the satellite ground system industry could harm our financial performance. • We are subject to risks associated with our strategy of acquiring other companies. • We may be exposed to product liability or related claims with respect to our products. • Our products may become obsolete due to rapid technological change in the satellite industry. • Our business is subject to risks associated with international transactions. • Our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials that we buy from suppliers. • We depend upon attracting and retaining a highly skilled professional staff. • We depend on the services of our key personnel. • We depend upon intellectual property rights and risk having our rights infringed. • The estimated backlog under our U.S. government contracts is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under the contracts. • Performance of some of our U.S. government contracts may require security clearance. • Some of our contracts are subject to security classification restrictions. • The market price of our common stock may be volatile. • Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. • We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. • The disruption, expense and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • We currently are subject to a formal SEC investigation and a related NASDAQ inquiry, which could require significant management attention and legal resources and could have a material adverse effect on us. iv Table of Contents PART 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Integral Systems, Inc. (the “Company”, “We”, “Us”, “Our”), a Maryland corporation incorporated in 1982, builds satellite ground systems and equipment for command and control, integration and test, data processing, and simulation. Since our inception, we have provided ground systems for over 200 different satellite missions for communications, science, meteorology, and earth resource applications. We have an established domestic and international customer base that includes government and commercial satellite operators, spacecraft and payload manufacturers and aerospace systems integrators. We have developed innovative software and hardware products designed to reduce the cost and minimize the development risk associated with traditional, custom-built satellite ground systems. We were a pioneer in offering a comprehensive commercial off-the-shelf (“COTS”) software product line for command and control. As a systems integrator, we configure these products to provide turnkey (fully equipped, ready to go into operation) satellite control facilities that can operate multiple satellites from most manufacturers. We believe these systems offer significant cost savings for customers that have traditionally purchased a separate custom control center for each of their satellites. We design and build satellite communications equipment and systems, principally for military applications, through our wholly-owned subsidiary Real Time Logic, Inc. (“RT Logic”). This equipment is used in satellite tracking stations, control centers, spacecraft factories and range facilities. We offer complementary ground system components and systems through our wholly-owned subsidiaries SAT Corporation (“SAT”) and Newpoint Technologies, Inc. (“Newpoint”). This includes turnkey systems, hardware and software for satellite and terrestrial communications signal monitoring, network and ground equipment monitoring and control and satellite data processing. We also own and operate a wholly-owned subsidiary, Integral Systems Europe S.A.S. (“ISI Europe”), with headquarters in Toulouse, France. ISI Europe serves as the focal point for the support of much of our European business. ISI Europe pursues ground systems business in Europe and Africa for command and control, signal monitoring, and network management using products from all our subsidiaries. On October 3, 2005, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Lumistar, LLC, which we hold in a subsidiary of RT Logic, Lumistar, Inc. (“Lumistar”). Through this indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, we provide system level and board level telemetry products. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein for more information regarding the acquisition of the assets of Lumistar, LLC. Our operations in Lanham, MD, which include a portion of our government and commercial segments, and our wholly-owned subsidiary RT Logic, Inc. in Colorado Springs, CO, and Englewood, CO are ISO 9001:2000 certified. We are committed to expanding our certification to include the remainder of our Colorado Springs operations and our other subsidiaries in the next 12-24 months. See “Item 1. Business—Industry Segments” for additional information on our four reportable segments. 1 Table of Contents Industry Background We consider the space industry to be broken down into the following sectors: space infrastructure; surveillance/data collection; communications; launch vehicles and services; established and emerging applications; and support services. Both government and commercial investments fund each of these sectors. Space infrastructure encompasses the development, manufacture, and procurement of hardware and related systems for both space assets (i.e., satellites and payloads) and ground assets (i.e., satellite ground systems). Our business is primarily focused in the ground system component of the space infrastructure sector. The U.S. Government makes up the majority of the surveillance/data collection sector of the space industry, making extensive use of satellites to support military operations. The communications sector of the space industry includes satellite systems for commercial telecommunications services and government and military communications. Satellite technology has become critical to supporting many aspects of telecommunications infrastructure, including long-distance telephone, personal communications systems, satellite radio, direct broadcast satellite video, and private networks. The launch sector includes launch vehicles and launch services that provide the on-orbit delivery of satellites and the propulsion into space for non-earth orbiting spacecraft. The applications sector includes established and emerging space technologies utilized for applications such as global positioning systems and remote sensing. Support services for the space industry include technical support, engineering, finance, and consulting, all of which facilitate the growth in space-related markets. We estimate that the current worldwide satellite ground systems infrastructure market represents a multi-billion dollar industry in annual revenues. We develop and build COTS hardware and software products to provide the core of all of our solutions for this market. We believe that our COTS software and hardware products have led the way in driving down the acquisition and support costs for the systems that we deliver. We believe that we are well positioned to expand our product and service offerings into other areas of the satellite ground system infrastructure which may result in an increase in both our revenue and market share. The Company Solution We offer satellite ground systems products, systems, and services that provide low-cost, efficient flexible satellite operations systems signal monitoring systems, network management systems, and RF to Ethernet signal processing equipment and systems. The principal characteristics of our approach are as follows: Commercial Off-the-Shelf (“COTS”) Based Solutions. Some of our systems are built around software and hardware products manufactured by us. These products satisfy the basic requirements for any delivered system. Our software products have an Application Programming Interface (“API”) that allows mission-unique features to be added to the system to satisfy any remaining requirements for the delivered system. This approach allows an initial capability to be implemented rapidly, reducing risk and cost for the program, and allowing system requirements to be fulfilled with minimum custom software development. The COTS approach also enables us to offer lower maintenance costs to our customers for the systems we deliver since these costs are shared by all users of our products through a software support subscription. Some software products are database driven, providing operations compatibility for most satellite types without any product customization. Our products are also compatible with the most commonly used satellite signal processing equipment which eliminates, in most instances, the need for developing hardware drivers for each new application. Depth of Functionality. Our core product line, EPOCH Integrated Product Suite (“IPS”), supports satellite operations through a suite of integrated products. This includes products for real-time satellite control and monitoring, off-line data trending, orbit analysis, and database configuration. Our real-time products perform daily and routine satellite operations, including commanding, telemetry processing, and fault detection and correction. The off-line data trending package supports sustaining engineering functions, including trending and statistical analysis of data archived by the real-time system. The orbit analysis package performs orbit determination and prediction functions to monitor and control the position of a satellite in space. The database package tailors the performance of the other three packages, which are general in scope, to the specific requirements of each satellite mission. The database package defines the telemetry and command characteristics and the desired orbital elements and tolerances for each satellite. Our satellite communications products support the full range of modulation and demodulation waveforms and are easily tailored to specific customer requirements. 2 Table of Contents Mixed Fleet Operations. Our products are compatible with most of the world’s major manufacturers’ satellite models. This enables us to provide a single product solution to operators who own fleets of mixed satellite models. These operators would previously have had several different types of ground systems for their fleet. We offer a single, expandable system that will operate the entire fleet. This reduces the operators’ costs for procurement, training, support, and spare parts. It also reduces the end user’s incremental costs to add a new satellite to the fleet and provides a safer operating environment due to reduced complexity associated with a single solution. Flexibility/Adaptability. A critical element to achieving initial operator acceptance of a new system and facilitating rapid implementation is the ability of our software to serve the needs of particular satellite systems. All of our software is database driven, allowing it to support satellite design changes or different series of satellites, without modifying the underlying software. Similarly, the software also supports a wide range of COTS antenna, RF, and baseband equipment (including our own products), allowing the total system to be delivered in the most efficient configuration for each mission. Our ground systems equipment products consolidate a number of functions to deliver value to customers. These software-related products are both scalable and programmable to support a wide range of requirements. Finally, the software is supported on the most widely used computer platforms, including Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, and Windows 2000/XP. Superior Price/Performance. We seek to achieve superior performance by providing comprehensive solutions within the budgetary needs of our customers. Our COTS software products provide advanced yet cost-effective solutions for satellite ground systems and operators and eliminate the need for expensive development services, thereby substantially reducing the overall cost of a ground system. Our database-driven software allows satellites to be added over time, and offers a software support subscription to our customers that provide support and new releases as they become available. The support program dramatically reduces the cost of support for our customers compared to support for custom systems, while providing resources for us to use for software product support and product improvements. Systems Integration and Processes. We have the ability to integrate and deliver turnkey satellite ground systems and can rapidly assemble the requisite hardware and software components needed for the ground systems, since in many cases the products required are built by us or our subsidiaries. This ensures the products integrate easily, are proven, and supportable as a system. We have extensive software development expertise, satellite procedure development expertise, and testing expertise to support our ability to deliver turnkey systems. We have government programs management expertise, management processes, including an Earned Value Management System (“EVMS”) capability, and technical development processes that enable it to perform on government programs. Company Strategy We provide satellite command and control systems, signal monitoring systems, and satellite signal processing systems for a wide variety of satellites and range systems. We intend to continue growing and integrating these core lines of business. Simultaneously, we are investing in new business and technology development with potential future acquisitions to add strategic growth involving government classified programs, unmanned aerial and surface programs, satellite payload programs, and other communications, control, and telemetry programs. Primary elements of our strategy include: Technological Leadership. We intend to continue to commit substantial resources to further develop the next generation of our COTS software and programmable hardware products upon which all of our delivered systems are built. In addition, because the satellite infrastructure industry is increasingly requiring compliance standards, we intend to adhere to existing and future industry standards and participate in the further development of such standards. Strategic Alliances and Partnerships. In addition to our own development and marketing organization, we have and intend to continue establishing partnerships with select third parties to assist us in successfully integrating our software products, implementing our command and control systems, expanding our system solution offerings, and developing new customer relationships. 3 Table of Contents Integration with Complementary Products. We believe that our ability to offer command and control software products that can integrate seamlessly with most satellite types and ground system components is a key competitive advantage. We also integrate our products with commonly used satellite signal processing hardware to provide a complete COTS solution and with complementary products, including visualization tools, geolocation software, and other support software solutions in order to maintain a competitive advantage and provide maximum flexibility for our customers. Sales, Support, Service, and Marketing Organizations. We currently sell and support our software and systems through direct sales to satellite operators and systems integrators in North America, Europe, and Asia. From our headquarters in Lanham, MD and each subsidiary location, we perform worldwide marketing, sales and services, including direct marketing efforts with U.S. Government organizations to capitalize on the growing acceptance of COTS solutions. Our Colorado Springs offices serve as the focal point for support of our services, products and operations provided to the U.S. Air Force. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ISI Europe, headquartered in Toulouse, France, we provide sales, marketing, support, and engineering services to the European market. Professional Services Capabilities. We believe that providing comprehensive services and a high level of customer support is critical to our ability to maintain a leading position in command and control systems and to expand into new markets. We provide professional service offerings in areas such as hardware testing, pre- and post-sale software support, quality assurance, project installation management, satellite procedure development, mission unique software development, and training. We believe that our ISO 9001:2000 certification efforts will help to ensure consistent delivery of high quality products and services. Products Most of our sales involve a combination of COTS software and hardware products together with development services for mission-specific requirements and system integration as summarized below. We believe that we are positioned well in the industry to offer full-function ground systems, utilizing products from our RT Logic, Newpoint, SAT, and Lumistar subsidiaries. Command and Control Software. EPOCH IPS, our COTS software product solution for satellite command and control is designed to operate a variety of satellites with minimum personnel. EPOCH IPS’s success has placed us at the forefront of replacing antiquated satellite control centers with more efficient systems that can operate multiple satellites produced by many manufacturers. EPOCH IPS’s open architecture, in combination with a graphical user interface and automated monitoring and control features, allows operators to monitor and control both their satellites and ground systems. EPOCH IPS features a modern, distributed architecture consisting of a series of servers and user workstations interconnected via an Ethernet LAN. The EPOCH Integrated Product Suite includes the following products: • EPOCH T&C Server and EPOCH Client, our real-time satellite data processing and control software products, provides satellite command and control capabilities, including telemetry processing and display, commanding and command verification (“CV”), ground station control, alarm/event processing, and data archive. These functions are driven by the EPOCH Database product, allowing the system to support multiple satellites solely through database updates, without modifying the run-time software. This results in lower maintenance and operations costs throughout the lifecycle of the ground system. • OASYS, our mission-planning software, provides full spectrum support for spacecraft orbit determination and control, including measurement set reductions, orbit determination, ephemeris propagation, maneuver planning, and orbit events/reports. OASYS allows the user to manage a single spacecraft or a fleet in any Earth orbit, including low Earth, geosynchronous, and Molniya-type orbits. • ABE, our offline analysis product, provides trending and statistical analysis of the information recorded in the real-time EPOCH IPS archives. ABE supports automatic data extraction of key data along with summary-level statistics (i.e., daily and seasonal minimums and maximums), advanced statistical processing techniques (i.e., covariance, convolution, and regression) and graphical data visualization. 4 Table of Contents • Archive Manager, our archive manager product performs archive data product generation, storage, storage management, and retrieval. The Archive Manager is capable of managing on-line storage and retrieval of terabytes of satellite data on RAID and NAS storage units, providing an efficient low cost storage capability. Data compression is utilized to provide additional value to the product. We offer a number of other software products to provide additional optional capabilities for our ground system solutions. EPOCH Web Server provides access to real-time and historical satellite data via the internet. The Task Initiator product provides automation capabilities to automatically execute scheduled or event-initiated tasks. The EPOCH Triggers product provides for automated execution of system actions based on preprogrammed conditions. Signal Monitoring. Our wholly-owned subsidiary SAT offers a range of software products and turnkey systems for communications signal monitoring, including MONICS, a family of scalable products from single site to fully networked multi-site systems for satellite transponder monitoring and interference detection, SAT-DSA, a stand alone interference detection and analysis tool for satellite transponder monitoring and SIGMON, a turnkey system for detecting terrestrial communications interference. Equipment Monitoring and Control. Our wholly-owned subsidiary Newpoint offers an integrated suite of products primarily for commercial users, including communication satellite operators, communication satellite users, and general-purpose telecommunications companies. Newpoint has two flagship products: (1) COMPASS, which provides distributed monitoring and control of networked communications systems, and (2) MERCURY, a rack-mountable smart box that provides monitoring and control of local network nodes and their associated ground equipment. Telemetry, Command and Range Processing. Our wholly-owned subsidiary RT Logic offers a comprehensive set of products for satellite ground systems. The product line leverages programmable hardware modules, firmware-based algorithms, and a common software architecture. The suite of TELEMETRIX products support telemetry processing, commanding, ranging, and remote site interfaces for a variety of applications, including tracking stations, control centers, spacecraft and payload integration, and launch range operations. The T501 and T500 products are used in satellite control centers to process the satellite telemetry and command links. The T400, T70/70, and T720 products are used at satellite ground stations to receive/transmit the satellite links. The T400 product line also supports specialized signal processing applications. Our wholly-owned subsidiary Lumistar offers a wide selection of products that process telemetry down-links for the flight, test, airborne, and satellite ground station markets. These include board-level and system-level products for frequency conversion, receiving, diversity combination, modulation/demodulation, bit/frame synchronization, simulation, and test transmitters. Lumistar also has an extensive software selection from board-level drivers to system-level control of device parameters allowing for the efficient integration of our products into larger applications. Development Services and Systems Integration We provide services to support mission-specific requirements for both government and commercial customers. Many of our ground system contracts have a service component. Depending on the application, the services may include development of software applications to interface to and augment the COTS software products, integration of third-party hardware and software, and/or custom software development. We also provide post-delivery warranty and maintenance service for most of our turnkey systems. We believe that our expertise and experience in satellite systems and operations, computer software and hardware, engineering/mathematical analysis, and end-user applications allow us to provide ground systems that exceed traditional expectations on system performance, cost, and implementation schedule. Our experience, together with our innovative COTS software products and software tools, reduce the risks and lead time associated with ground systems development. 5 Table of Contents Customers In general, there are four major applications for satellites: communications; military; remote sensing; and scientific research. We have customers in each of these areas and believe that the combination of our proven COTS software products and our strength as a systems integrator positions us well to serve as a total solutions provider for all of these applications. Commercial Communications Satellites. We provide satellite command and control products for a variety of communications satellites. One of the principal advantages that our products offer in the commercial sector is the ability to operate fleets of satellites from multiple vendors. This capability allows operators to reduce costs by consolidating their control centers and use a single software package to operate their satellite fleet. We also provide payload monitoring systems and software to satellite operators for monitoring quality of service and identification of interfering signals. Our ground equipment monitor and control software is also used by satellite operators to control the ground equipment in the control center and remote equipment sites. We also provide satellite signal processing hardware, primarily for military systems, to process satellite signals to/from command and control systems. Our products are currently used to operate communications satellites from most of the major satellite manufacturers, including Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Space Systems Loral, Orbital Sciences, EADS, and Alcatel. Several of the our other customers include SES Astra, Protostar, Echostar, SES Americom, Loral Skynet, Shin Satellite, Binariang Satellite Systems, Asiasat, SatMex, Orbital Sciences, Optus, Worldspace, Sirius Radio, JSAT Corporation, B-SAT Corporation, and ChinaSat. All of these operators have purchased our products to operate all or part of their fleets of geosynchronous Earth orbit (“GEO”) communications satellites. Military Applications. We are a leading provider of command and control products for U.S. military communications satellites. We provide ground systems software and equipment for multiple U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”) programs. Our products are used in a majority of Air Force and Navy satellite control systems. Our customers include multiple aerospace prime contractors such as Lockheed Martin Corporation, Boeing Satellite Systems, Honeywell International, Inc., Northrop Grumman, and Raytheon Company. These customers subcontract to us to provide a portion of their solution or they purchase our products and then integrate them into satellite ground systems that they are delivering to the U.S. Government. We also sell directly to the DoD. The U.S. Air Force is our largest single customer, providing 56% of our 2007 consolidated revenues through prime contracts or subcontracts. We are the prime contractor for the Command and Control Center – Consolidated (“CCS-C”) contract to upgrade the Air Force’s satellite command and control system for the DSCS, Milstar, Advanced EHF, and Wideband Gapfiller satellites. In addition, we are the prime contractor for a contract with Space and Missiles System Center (“SMC”), on behalf of the U.S. Air Force, Air Force Space Command, for the first developmental step (Block 10) of the Rapid Attack Identification, Detection, and Reporting System (“RAIDRS”) program. Our products support the processing of telemetry, commanding, and ranging data, performing generation, and reception of the RF links to and from on-orbit satellites and are used to receive telemetry data from the space lift ranges during launch of military satellites and to test satellites at the place of manufacture. Remote Sensing and Meteorology. We build command and control systems as well as payload and image data processing systems for meteorological satellites. Since our inception, we have provided ground systems for the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”), including both their Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (“GOES”) Program and Television Infrared Observational Satellite (“TIROS”) programs. Our systems support mission operations, instrument data processing, simulation and flight software validation, and built the complete command and control system for the U.S. Air Force Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (“DMSP”), whose operations were transitioned to civilian control under NOAA’s aegis. 6 Table of Contents High-performance ground systems are required to support Earth resource satellites that provide military and civilian customers with accurate image data. We have provided such command and control subsystems to Space Imaging/EOSAT and other operators. Scientific Research. We have supported a variety of diverse and complex scientific missions and were selected by The Johns Hopkins University (“JHU”) Applied Physics Laboratory (“APL”) to support the first National Aeronautics and Space Administration (“NASA”) Discovery Mission, the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Program (“NEAR”). NEAR was the first in a series of low-cost, small-planet exploratory missions designed to gather data about asteroids in the solar system. APL chose us to provide our command and control products for the Timed, Contour, Stereo and Messenger, and Horizon science satellites. Our EPOCH IPS products form the core of the mission’s command and control ground system and also support the spacecraft integration and test (“I&T”). The National Space Program Office (“NSPO”) for the Republic of China selected us to provide a complete multi-mission command and control system for their ROCSAT series of satellites. We also support small satellite missions in the United States such as Orbital Sciences Corporation’s SeaStar and Microlab programs. Business Segments The following is a description of our four operating segments: Ground Systems – Government: this segment provides ground systems products and services to the U.S. Federal Government. It is currently our largest segment in terms of revenue and consists of our core command and control business for government applications. Its primary customers are the U.S. Air Force and NOAA. Ground Systems – Commercial: this segment provides ground systems products and services to commercial enterprises and international organizations. It consists of our core command and control business for commercial applications and three of our wholly-owned subsidiaries as follows: • SAT and Newpoint offer complementary ground system components and systems. This includes turnkey systems, hardware and software for satellite and terrestrial communications signal monitoring, network and ground equipment monitoring, and control and satellite data processing. • ISI Europe, our wholly-owned subsidiary in Toulouse, France, serves as the focal point for the support of all of our European business. ISI Europe pursues ground systems business in Europe and Africa for command and control, signal monitoring, and network management using our products. Space Communications Systems: this segment includes our wholly-owned subsidiaries RT Logic and Lumistar. RT Logic designs and builds satellite communications equipment and systems, principally for military applications. This equipment is used in satellite tracking stations, control centers, spacecraft factories, and range operations. Lumistar, which acquired the assets of Lumistar LLC on October 3, 2005, provides system level and board level telemetry products. Corporate: this segment includes our Product Division, which is responsible for our core command and control product line (“EPOCH IPS”) and business areas in the development stage (currently, there are no business areas in the development stage). The Product Division licenses our EPOCH IPS product line to other operating segments and to third-party customers. It is also the segment responsible for EPOCH IPS maintenance and support revenue and expenses. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein for financial information regarding these segments. 7 Table of Contents Strategic Growth Initiatives We have discontinued our program to explore strategic alternatives, which we had commenced in 2006, and on October 10, 2007 we formally terminated our investment banking agreement with BB&T Capital Markets/Windsor Group. Management and the Board of Directors have now collectively developed a corporate vision and strategic growth program keyed to both growing our core satellite ground station command and control and associated RF and digital communications businesses and also adding new capabilities and applications by acquisition of specifically targeted product and development oriented companies. Our growth program envisions expanding the footprint of the satellite ground station to include such areas as space and ground situational awareness, visualization, unmanned aerial vehicle (“UAV”) communication links, satellite payload control, mission planning, satellite communication networks, data fusion, and others. Marketing During 2007, we established the office of New Business and Technology Development to better coordinate the continuing activities of our operations-based and program-oriented marketing program, while developing and implementing a corporate vision and strategic growth program. As noted in “Item 1. Business — Strategic Growth Initiatives”, we have embarked on a strategic growth program keyed to both growing our core satellite ground station command and control and associated RF and digital communications businesses and also adding new capabilities and applications by acquisition of specifically targeted product and development oriented companies. We will continue to engage senior management, business area managers, and senior technical staff to develop and execute marketing plans, prepare and present proposals, collect marketing information dealing with current and future programs at existing and potential customers, and develop a network of industry marketing contacts through contract performance, informal briefings, participation in industry organizations and from published literature, and industry client and multi-client studies. To complement our enhanced marketing efforts and strategic growth planning, we entered into an agreement with a public relations firm to organize and implement a continuous public relations program to ensure that our vision and strategic growth initiatives, together with current operating program successes and achievements, are effectively communicated and highlighted to our shareholders, our employees, our customers, the industry, and equity markets as a whole. We will continue to seek business believed to be of long-term benefit based on considerations such as technical sophistication, favorable market positioning, and potential product spin-offs. This approach to marketing is mirrored in our products which are highly adaptable to growth and change in the requirements of each user. Research and Development (R&D) We believe that investment in R&D is of vital importance to our continued success. Part of our strategy is to understand the changing needs of our customers and then be prepared to meet those needs as they arise in new programs or in new program functions. We conduct R&D efforts to sustain and advance our technology base, to gain a competitive advantage, and to secure new contracts. Our efforts are more oriented to development than research in a scientific sense and we seek to leverage commercially available products when possible. During the most recent fiscal year, approximately 47% of our R&D expenditures were made to sustain and enhance existing products and 53% of our R&D expenditures were directed towards continuing and completing the development of new and improved product capabilities for RT Logic, Newpoint, and SAT involving high rate signal processing, frequency conversion, and signal monitoring systems. The benefits of these investments were realized in part during 2007 for SAT, leading to a greater than 43% increase in revenue compared to 2006. The benefits of these investments are anticipated to further increase SAT revenues and also those of RT Logic and Newpoint during fiscal year 2008 and beyond. Expenditures for R&D totaled to approximately $2.5 million, $2.6 million, $2.4 million, and $3.7 million for fiscal years 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate making similar R&D investments at an increased level in the future to create new and improved products in support of our strategic growth initiatives. 8 Table of Contents U.S. Government Contracts We provide satellite ground systems and engineering services to the U.S. Government and to companies with prime contracts with the U.S. Government. Our systems include a broad range of functions necessary for satellite mission support including ground station monitoring and control, satellite telemetry and command processing, mission planning, satellite orbit determination and maneuver planning, data archiving and analysis, and mission data processing and analysis. We provide our government customers complete operational ground systems as well as individual ground system components by utilizing our diverse suite of products. Our Government segment customers typically require extensive post-acquisition support to successfully implement our products. To address the unique requirements relating to the government, we seek to provide our customers with all of the necessary services required for mission success including program management, systems engineering and integration, software development, security engineering, and operations and maintenance support. In addition, to meet government program management and security requirements, we offer accredited EVMS and secure processing facilities. Revenues from U.S. Government contracts are derived from a combination of contracts with the U.S. Government and subcontracts with other companies that have prime contracts with the U.S. Government. Our Government customers include the DoD, and both civilian and national agencies. Specifically, our contracts that are directly with government clients include the U.S. Air Force, NOAA, The Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Sandia National Laboratory, and the Johns Hopkins/Applied Physics Laboratory. We also have subcontracts with major aerospace companies that support the U.S. Government including Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, and Boeing. For fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005, approximately 80%, 79%, and 77%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from prime contracts or subcontracts funded by the U.S. Government. The U.S. Air Force represented 56%, 55%, and 57% of our revenues, respectively, for fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005 through prime contracts or subcontracts. We expect that a significant amount of our revenue for fiscal year 2008 will continue to be derived from Air Force contracts and subcontracts since we have two large Air Force contracts that are scheduled to continue to earn significant revenue in fiscal year 2008. Under one contract, we are leading a team of subcontractors, on behalf of the Air Force Space Command in building a system intended for global satellite communications interference detection, characterization, event reporting, and mission impact assessment for U.S. owned, operated, or used space systems through delivery of a suite of RF interference sensors, geolocation equipment, and centralized control. The other significant contract is with the Air Force Space and Missiles System Center (“SMC”). Under this contract, we are leading a team of subcontractors to produce a modern, consolidated command and control infrastructure for the military’s fleet of communication satellites, including MILSTAR, Advanced EHF, and Wideband Global Satellite. U.S. Government contracts are awarded by formal sealed bidding or negotiation. Negotiated procurements may, but do not necessarily, involve the solicitation of competitive proposals. If competitive proposals are solicited, the U.S. Government selects the proposal most advantageous to it and may or may not conduct negotiations with the offerors before awarding the contract. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years but are funded only on an annual basis. Accordingly, our contracts and subcontracts are subject to termination, reduction, or modification in the event of changes in the government’s requirements or budgetary constraints. When we participate in a project as a subcontractor, we are subject to the risk that the prime contractor may fail or be unable to perform the prime contract. All of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts are also subject to termination for “convenience,” or without cause. In this situation, we would be reimbursed for allowable costs up to the date of termination and would be paid a proportionate amount of the fees attributable to the work actually performed. Our books and records are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”). Such audits can result in adjustments to contract costs and fees. Thus far, we have not been required to make any material audit adjustments. Our Lanham-based government operations have been audited by the DCAA through fiscal year ended September 30, 2004. Our RT Logic subsidiary has been audited by the DCAA through September 30, 2005. Newpoint, SAT, ISI Europe, and Lumistar are not currently subject to audits by the DCAA. 9 Table of Contents Non-U.S. Government Contracts We also have contracts with commercial and international organizations. For fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005, approximately 20%, 21%, and 23%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from non-U.S. Government contracts. These contracts are typically with commercial satellite operators, satellite manufacturers, aerospace systems integrators, telecommunications companies, and foreign governments. For these fiscal years, there was no one customer that accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Some of our commercial contracts are with international organizations. For fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005, approximately 10%, 11%, and 11%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from international organizations. Various agencies and departments of the U.S. Government regulate our ability to pursue business opportunities outside the United States. Exports of space-related products, services, and technical information require licenses granted by the U.S. Government. For our products, services, or technical information requiring such a license, we do not currently have blanket authorization for their export and may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses or approvals on a per transaction basis. We currently have some contracts that are subject to currency fluctuations in foreign markets. The value of these contracts is not material and therefore no currency fluctuation mitigation contracts are presently in place. We may use foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate currency fluctuation in the future if the volume of business increases. Most of our commercial contracts are awarded competitively and are performed on a fixed-price basis. Typically, these contracts are our products and/or turnkey systems that are delivered by us in time frames ranging from a few weeks to eighteen months. Payment is most often based on delivery milestones established in the contract. These contracts may include a warranty period that lasts one to two years. We offer our software support subscription on a fixed-price basis and customized support for the system on a fixed-price or time and material (“T&M”) basis. Contracts may require us to post a performance bond, establish an irrevocable letter of credit, or agree to pay liquidated damages in the event of late delivery. Competition We routinely experience significant competition. Several large aerospace/defense contractors have developed satellite control systems either in-house as primary contractors or through subcontractors. As a result, some of our competitors are also current or potential customers. Our primary competitors include the following: • Lockheed Martin Corporation • Boeing Satellite Systems • Northrop Grumman • Honeywell International, Inc. (formerly AlliedSignal) • General Dynamics • Computer Sciences Corporation • Alcatel Alenia Space • Astrium • Raytheon Company • Intelsat • GMV • Harris • L3 • SS/L • Orbital Sciences Corporation • Avtech • ViaSat • SEMCO 10 Table of Contents Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial resources than us. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of large, diversified companies that have access to the financial resources of their parent companies. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies or maintain them as customers while competing with them on other projects. In addition, several smaller companies have specialized capabilities in similar areas. Our products also face competition from certain off-the-shelf products developed by the U.S. government for satellite command and control. We cannot predict how our competitive position may be affected by changing economic or competitive conditions, customer requirements, or technological developments. We principally obtain contracts and subcontracts through competitive procurements offered by the U.S. government or commercial enterprises. Backlog and Seasonality Our estimated backlog is as follows (in thousands): September 30,2007 September 30,2006 September 30,2005 Outstanding Commitments $ 75,500 $ 45,700 $ 47,700 General Commitments 175,000 202,400 196,000 Total $ 250,500 $ 248,100 $ 243,700 Outstanding commitments consist of contracts where we have a firm commitment by the customer to provide specific products and/or services, frequently over an extended period of time. The increase in outstanding commitments backlog in fiscal 2007 relates primarily to booking in 2007 that exceeded revenue recognized in 2007 for all of our operating segments. Major bookings in 2007 include the NSPO ground, Protostar P-1 and Rascom projects in our Ground Systems—Commercial segment, the PAN and CCS-C projects in our Ground Systems—Government segment, and higher bookings for Honeywell, JPL, General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, and Sandia Labs in our Space Communications Systems segment. Our product bookings and backlog grew in the Corporate segment due to several new sales to our customers on existing projects. General commitments consist of contracts that have been awarded to us where our customer has certain contract options that management believes are likely to be exercised in the future. Contract options are our contractual agreement to provide future products or services in the event that the customer exercises those future options. The decrease in general commitments backlog in fiscal 2007 relates primarily to firming up commitments from the PAN and CCS-C projects in our Government segment, which resulted in the transfer of that backlog from general commitments in 2006 to firm commitments in 2007. Many of our contracts are multi-year contracts with option years, and portions of these contracts are carried forward from one year to the next as part of our contract backlog. Our total contract backlog represents management’s estimate of the aggregate unearned revenues expected to be earned by us over the life of all of our contracts, including option periods. Because many factors affect the scheduling of projects, we cannot predict when revenues will be realized on projects included in our backlog. In addition, although contract backlog represents only business where we have written agreements with our customers, cancellations or scope adjustments may occur. Accordingly, we believe that backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Our business is cyclical, but it is not seasonal to any significant extent. Our backlog typically is subject to fluctuations from quarter to quarter as existing contracts are renewed or new contracts are awarded. Raw Materials We require the use of various raw materials, including racks, chassis, servers, single-board-computers, printed wiring boards, and cables in our assembly processes. These raw materials are used primarily in our Space Communication Systems segment. We purchase a variety of manufactured component parts from various suppliers. At times, we concentrate orders among a few suppliers in order to strengthen our supplier relationships and receive quantity discounts. Raw materials and component parts are generally available from multiple suppliers at competitive prices. We have several cooperation agreements with a French supplier for certain modem systems that we further customize and deliver to customers. These agreements are subject to termination by either party and at any time. To date, the relationship with the supplier is 11 Table of Contents very good. The agreements provide for the support of delivered product in the event of agreement termination. However, an unanticipated termination of the cooperation agreements could be disruptive to our generation of revenues as we would be unable to bid additional work that depends on the modems. Proprietary Rights We regard our products as proprietary trade secrets and confidential information and have made the strategic decision not to seek patent protection for our software, hardware, or systems and instead we rely on a combination of common law copyright and trade secret laws, third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other industry standard methods for protecting ownership of our proprietary software, hardware, and systems. Therefore, none of our software, hardware, or systems are patented. We generally register trademarks with respect to new products and new versions of our software as it is developed. In spite of these precautions, however, an unauthorized third party could obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We do not have confidentiality agreements with all of our employees. We believe that we have all necessary rights to market our products, although it is possible that third parties will assert infringement claims in the future. Employees As of September 30, 2007, we had approximately 455 full-time employees. Competition for highly skilled employees is intense. We believe that our employees and their knowledge and capabilities are a major asset and we have been successful in attracting and retaining skilled employees in our core business areas. We believe that our overall relations with our employees are good. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Starting June 2007 our Board of Directors initiated a number of changes relating to strengthening our senior management team and enhancing the corporate infrastructure. These changes included: the addition of an interim and now permanent CEO and President, Alan Baldwin; an interim CFO and Treasurer, William Lewis; the transfer of the past CEO, Peter Gaffney, to a newly created position of Executive Vice President of New Business and Technology Development; and the transfer of the previous CFO, Elaine Brown, to a newly created position of Executive Vice President of Administration and Secretary. The program to strengthen management and the corporate infrastructure has continued to include the addition of: a new permanent Executive Vice President and CFO, William Bambarger, who also assumed the position of Treasurer effective December 1, 2007, upon Mr. Lewis’ resignation from that position; a new Corporate Controller, Hemi Lee-Gallagher; and a new Vice President of Human Resources, Jeffrey Rosolio. During this process, the corporate organization structure was also modified to create and fill the positions of Director of Security and Director of Quality Assurance, both reporting to the CEO. Arnie Hunter was hired as the new Director of Security, and Joseph Nickey was promoted internally as the new Director of Quality Assurance. The improvement program is now fully focused on the development and documentation of the requisite departmental systems and associated processes and procedures. Available Information Our headquarters is located at 5000 Philadelphia Way, Lanham, Maryland 20706. Our telephone number is (301) 731-4233. Our web site address is www.integ.com. We make available free of charge on our internet web site our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors are also posted on our website at www.integ.com/CorporateGovernance. Stockholders may also request copies of these documents by writing to our Corporate Secretary at 5000 Philadelphia Way, Lanham, MD 20706. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, careful consideration of the following factors is recommended which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or future results. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. • A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts or subcontracts funded by the U.S. government. The following table lists the approximate revenues, as a percentage of our total revenues, derived from contracts funded by the U.S. government and by one particular agency of the U.S. government, the Department of the Air Force, for fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005. Time Period Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the U.S. government Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the Department of the Air Force Fiscal year 2007 80 % 56 % Fiscal year 2006 79 % 55 % Fiscal year 2005 77 % 57 % We expect that U.S. government business, primarily derived from Department of the Air Force contracts and subcontracts, is likely to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the future. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by changing U.S. government procurement practices and policies as well as declines in U.S. government civilian and defense agency spending. The factors that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win new contracts with the U.S. government, or retain existing contracts, include the following: • budgetary constraints; • changes in U.S. government funding levels, programs, policies, or requirements; • technological developments; • changes in level of U.S. government funds available for services that we provide; • the adoption of new laws or regulations; and • general economic conditions. Some of our U.S. government contracts individually contribute a significant percentage of our revenues. Our single largest contract with the Department of the Air Force represents approximately 24% of our revenues for fiscal year 2007 and a small number of other large U.S. government contracts are likely to continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in the future. Termination of any of these contracts or our inability to renew or replace these contracts when they expire for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination without cause by the U.S. government. All of our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination by the U.S. government for “convenience,” which means termination without cause. Should the U.S. government terminate a contract without cause, we would be reimbursed for allowable costs incurred through the date of termination and would be paid a proportionate amount of the stipulated profits or fees attributable to work actually performed. Termination of any of our significant U.S. government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to U.S. government regulations and audits. U.S. government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing U.S. government contracts. Any violation of these regulations by us could result in the termination of the contracts, imposition of fines or exclusion from U.S. government contracting and U.S. government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. In addition, our contract costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of audits by the DCAA and other U.S. government auditors. We reflect any adjustments required by U.S. government auditors in our financial statements. Although we have thus far not been required to make any material audit adjustments, it is possible that adjustments will be required in the future. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. U.S. government contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, U.S. government contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive process. We may not be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace U.S. government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts with federal U.S. government agencies are subject to competition and awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience, and price. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected to the extent that U.S. government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new U.S. government contract awards also are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of the subject contract to a competitor, or the reopening of the sealed bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring U.S. government contracts. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to the budget and funding process of the U.S. government. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years but are funded only on an annual basis. Accordingly, our contracts and subcontracts are subject to termination, reduction, or modification in the event of changes in the U.S. government’s requirements funding priorities, or budgetary constraints. Budget decisions by the U.S. government may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. If one or more of our programs is reduced, extended, or terminated, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional funding and are typically subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding. Congress usually allocates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take several years. At the onset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional funds are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency as funds are made available by Congress for future fiscal years. Contractors often experience revenue uncertainties during the first quarter of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, which begins October 1, until differences between budget requests and appropriations are resolved. To date, Congress has funded all years of the multi-year major program contracts for which we have served as prime contractor or subcontractor, but this may not continue in the future. 14 Table of Contents • We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the even that we have cost overruns A significant portion of our revenues are generated from the sale of services and products to commercial customers. Many of our commercial contracts are for a fixed price and can subject us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. Our revenues on fixed-price contracts are recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis and we calculate an estimate of completion to determine revenue for each fixed-price project. As a result, contract price and cost estimates on fixed-price contracts are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in income in the period when the estimates are revised. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance on a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. • Our commercial contracts are subject to competition and strict performance and other requirements. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. Our failure to meet these performance obligations and milestones permits the other party to terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us, any of which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Intense competition in the satellite ground system industry could harm our financial performance. The satellite ground system industry is very competitive and marked by continuous technological challenges. Several large aerospace/defense contractors have developed satellite control systems either in-house as primary contractors or through subcontractors. As a result, some of our competitors are also current or potential customers. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of large, diversified companies that have access to the financial resources of their parent companies. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies or maintain them as customers while competing with them on other contracts. In addition, several smaller companies have specialized capabilities in similar areas. Our products also face competition from certain off-the-shelf products developed by the U.S. government for satellite command and control. We cannot predict how our competitive position may be affected by changing economic or competitive conditions, customer requirements, or technological developments. We principally obtain contracts and subcontracts through competitive procurements offered by the U.S. government or commercial enterprises. We may not be able to compete successfully. • We are subject to risks associated with our growth strategy and acquiring other companies. We may continue to look for complementary businesses to acquire so that we can strengthen and expand our core business and may not be able to find any attractive candidates or determine that the acquisition terms proposed by potential acquisition candidates are not favorable to us. We may compete with other companies for these acquisition candidates, which may make an acquisition more expensive for us. Instability in the U.S. securities markets and volatility in our stock price may make acquisitions with our stock more expensive. If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable candidates, we may not be able to grow beyond the growth that we have experienced in the past several fiscal years. Accordingly, our acquisition strategy may not improve our overall business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could weaken them. 15 Table of Contents • We may be exposed to product liability or related claims with respect to our products. Our products are mission-critical parts of sophisticated and extremely expensive satellite and range safety systems. Should a satellite mission fail, or should the system’s service become unavailable due to a failure or malfunction in the ground system, or should a space launch vehicle be destroyed as a result of malfunction, we could be sued for product liability or related claims. Moreover, we have found obtaining insurance to cover product liability claims to be impractical and not cost effective. Any product liability or related claim could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our products may become obsolete due to rapid technological change in the satellite industry. Any of our products could become obsolete at any time due to rapid technological changes in the satellite industry. In addition, we may not be able to update our products quickly enough to remain competitive. The rapid pace of technological change in our industry exposes us to risk of loss due to the development of superior technologies by our competitors. We are also dependent upon technologies developed by third parties for integrating our ground systems with a variety of satellite systems. To the extent that we cannot obtain necessary technologies from third parties, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, as land-based telecommunications services expand, demand for certain types of satellite-based services, such as the services we provide, may be reduced. New technology used by our competitors could render satellite-based services less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in alternative ways or through the use of telecommunications standards that are incompatible with our products. In addition, our success depends on our ability to introduce innovative products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis. • Our business is subject to risks associated with international transactions. For fiscal year 2007, approximately 10% of our revenue was derived from our international operations. Business in countries outside the United States carries additional managerial, operational, legal, and political risks. These operations are subject to changes in government regulations and telecommunications standards, tariffs or taxes, and other trade barriers. Our agreements relating to foreign operations may be enforceable only in foreign jurisdictions so that it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights. We currently have several contracts that are subject to currency fluctuations in foreign markets. The value of these contracts is not material. To mitigate currency fluctuation, we may periodically use foreign currency exchange contracts. If we enter into these types of contracts in the future, the limited availability of U.S. currency in certain local markets could prevent a contracting party from making payments to us in U.S. dollars or exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our revenues. We may not enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate currency fluctuation in the future or, even if we do enter into such hedging transactions, they may not protect us from currency fluctuations. Various agencies and departments of the U.S. government regulate our ability to pursue business opportunities outside the United States. Exports of space-related products, services, and technical information require licenses granted by the U.S. government. We do not currently have blanket authorization for export of our products and services. We may not be able to obtain blanket export authorization in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or approvals on a per-transaction basis, and our inability to do so, or our failure to comply with the terms of the authorization when granted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials that we buy from suppliers. Through our RT Logic and Lumistar subsidiaries, we have several cooperation agreements with a French supplier for certain modem systems we further customize and deliver to customers. These agreements are subject to termination by either party. The agreements provide for the support of delivered product in the event of agreement termination. However, our business could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our supplier (such as the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees, or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price 16 Table of Contents increases to our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms, and an unanticipated termination of the cooperation agreements could be disruptive to revenue attainment as we would be unable to bid additional work that depends on the modems. • We depend upon attracting and retaining a highly skilled professional staff. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly in the area of information technology. We face significant competition for employees with the computer and technology skills required to perform our services and create our products. In addition, we must often comply with provisions in U.S. government contracts that require specified levels of education, work experience, and security clearances for our employees. We may not be successful in attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled and qualified employees in the future. For all of these reasons, the loss of our key technical personnel, or our inability in the future to attract key employees or to relocate them as required by customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We depend on the services of our key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree on our key management personnel, especially the following: • Alan W. Baldwin, Chief Executive Officer and President • Peter J. Gaffney, Executive Vice President of New Business and Technology Development • William M. Bambarger, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer • Elaine M. Brown, Executive Vice President, Administration and Secretary • Stuart Daughtridge, Executive Vice President, Commercial Segment • James Schuetzle, Executive Vice President, Government Division • Mark D. McMillen, Chief Executive Officer, RT Logic We have employment agreements with some of these individuals. The loss of any one of these key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any members of management. • We depend upon intellectual property rights and risk having our rights infringed. Much of our business is derived from work product, software programs, designs, algorithms, methodologies, and other information that we have privately developed. We have made a strategic decision after discussion with intellectual property counsel not to seek patent protection for our software, hardware, and systems. We have registered many of our trademarks. Although we seek to protect our intellectual property with a combination of common law and registered trademarks and copyrights, and software license and confidentiality agreements with third parties, these measures may not prevent unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices, or procedures, or that others may not independently develop similar knowledge, practices, or procedures. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Moreover, we do not have confidentiality agreements with all of our employees. Disclosure or loss of control over our privately developed information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims. Any litigation with respect to our intellectual property rights would be costly and could divert management’s attention, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Adverse determinations in litigation involving our intellectual property could: • Result in the loss of our intellectual property rights; • subject us to significant liabilities; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; or • prevent us from selling our services or products. 17 Table of Contents Any one of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Under some government contracts, we may develop software that in the future we may decide to commercialize. In order to commercialize that software, we might need to invest additional R&D funds to re-market the software as a commercial product. If the product was developed using any government funding, government regulations and contract provisions may prevent us from selling the resulting product to any government agencies. If the primary market for a potential product is government agencies, we may not be able to recover invested funds through sale of the product. In addition, the government may acquire certain rights to software programs we develop that are funded under government contracts or subcontracts and may disclose information with respect to those programs or products to third parties, including our competitors. • The estimated backlog under our U.S. government contracts is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under the contracts. Many of our U.S. government contracts are multi-year contracts and contracts with option years, and portions of these contracts are carried forward from one year to the next as part of our contract backlog. Backlog means the total value of all contracts less the revenues earned to date on those contracts. The estimated backlog under a U.S. government contract is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under that contract. Congress normally appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis, even though actual contract performance may take many years. As a result, contracts ordinarily are only partially funded at the time of award, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the contracting agency as Congress makes appropriations in subsequent fiscal years. It is possible that Congress will not appropriate funds or that procuring agencies will not commit funds to our U.S. government contracts for their anticipated terms. In addition, most of our U.S. government contracts have an initial term of one year plus a number of option years. The U.S. government may not extend a particular contract through its option years. Certain of our large contracts provide that we will not receive payment until the services under those contracts are requested and performed. Cancellations or adjustments in the terms of these contracts could occur. In addition, our services under these contracts may not be requested at currently anticipated levels in the future. • Performance of some of our U.S. government contracts may require security clearance. Some of our contracts with U.S. government agencies require that some of our employees and procedures meet security clearance requirements. If problems develop meeting security clearance requirements, those problems could materially limit our ability to perform these contracts. • Some of our contracts are subject to security classification restrictions. We derive some of our revenues and profits from programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (restricted business), which could limit our ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors might have less insight into our restricted business than our other businesses or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with restricted business. • The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of securities of technology companies has historically faced significant volatility. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • growth rates; • changes in estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in our earnings and revenues or quarterly operating results; • announcements by competitors; 18 Table of Contents • announcements, if any, with respect to our exploration of strategic alternatives; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Any of these events would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. • Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size, and scope of our contracts; • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays; • employee productivity; • adequacy of provisions for losses; • accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing contracts; and • general economic conditions Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in a particular period. In this event, the market price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. • We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. Goodwill accounts for approximately $51 million, or 37.7%, of our recorded total assets as of September 30, 2007. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If our goodwill were to become significantly impaired, this would require substantial write downs that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • The disruption, expense, and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time. Any litigation, regardless of its merits, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees being borne by us. Further, actions that have been or will be brought against us may be resolved in our favor or, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, we may not have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruptions, legal fees, and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. • We are currently subject to a formal investigation by the SEC and a related inquiry by NASDAQ, which could require significant management attention and legal resources and could have a material adverse effect on us. As previously disclosed, the SEC has issued a formal order of investigation, and NASDAQ has initiated a related inquiry. The investigation and inquiry include questions as to whether Gary A. Prince was acting as a de facto executive officer of the Company prior to his promotion to the position of Executive Vice President and Managing Director of Operations of the Company in August 2006 and questions as to whether Mr. Prince was practicing as an accountant before the SEC while an employee of the Company. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The Board of Directors of the Company has established a Special Committee of independent directors of the Company to supervise 19 Table of Contents our responses to such investigation and inquiry and to investigate related matters. The Special Committee has retained the law firm of Foley Hoag LLP, to serve as its independent counsel. We are cooperating fully with the SEC and NASDAQ. We are unable to determine at this time either the timing of the investigation and inquiry, the impact, if any, which the investigation and inquiry could have on us, or the outcome of the investigation or the inquiry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 