ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, careful consideration of the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or future results, is recommended. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. • A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts or subcontracts funded by the U.S. government. The following table lists the approximate revenues, as a percentage of our total revenues, derived from contracts funded by the U.S. government and by one particular agency of the U.S. government, the Department of the Air Force, for fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006. Time Period Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the U.S. government Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the Departmentof the Air Force Fiscal year 2008 82 % 53 % Fiscal year 2007 80 % 56 % Fiscal year 2006 79 % 55 % We expect that U.S. government business, primarily derived from Department of the Air Force contracts and subcontracts, is likely to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the future. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by changing U.S. government procurement practices and policies as well as declines in U.S. government civilian and defense agency spending. The factors that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win new contracts with the U.S. government, or retain existing contracts, include the following: • budgetary constraints; • changes in U.S. government funding levels, programs, policies, or requirements; 12 Table of Contents • technological developments; • changes in level of U.S. government funds available for services that we provide; • the adoption of new laws or regulations; and • global economic conditions. Some of our U.S. government contracts individually contribute a significant percentage of our revenues. Our single largest contract with the Department of the Air Force represents approximately 21% of our revenues for fiscal year 2008 and a small number of other large U.S. government contracts are likely to continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in the future. Termination of any of these contracts or our inability to renew or replace these contracts when they expire for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination without cause by the U.S. government. All of our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination by the U.S. government for “convenience,” which means termination without cause. Should the U.S. government terminate a contract without cause, we would be reimbursed for allowable costs incurred through the date of termination and would be paid a proportionate amount of the stipulated profits or fees attributable to work actually performed. Termination of any of our significant U.S. government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to U.S. government regulations and audits, which include the acceptance of our reimbursable rates relating to overhead and selling, general and administrative expenses. U.S. government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing U.S. government contracts. Any violation of these regulations by us could result in the termination of the contracts, imposition of fines, or exclusion from U.S. government contracting and U.S. government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. In addition, our contract costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of audits by the DCAA and other U.S. government auditors. We reflect any adjustments required by U.S. government auditors in our financial statements. Although we have thus far not been required to make any material audit adjustments, it is possible that adjustments will be required in the future. In addition, we are required to self-report to the U.S. government any overpayments on our U.S. government contracts, and to inform the appropriate federal agency inspector general whenever we have credible evidence of a violation of certain federal criminal laws or the civil False Claims Act in connection with our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. Any such disclosures by us could subject us to a formal investigation, fines and civil or criminal prosecution, which could require significant management attention and legal resources and could have a material adverse effect on us. The knowing failure to timely disclose to the U.S. government credible evidence of a violation of certain federal criminal laws or the civil False Claims Act in connection with our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts, or a significant overpayment on one of our contracts, could result in our exclusion from U.S. government contracting and U.S. government-approved subcontracting for some specific period. • Our contracts and subcontracts are generally subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Our contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, these contracts may be subject, once again, to a competitive renewal 13 Table of Contents process if applicable. We may not be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace existing contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts with U.S. government agencies are subject to competition and awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience, and price. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected to the extent that U.S. government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new U.S. government contract awards are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of the subject contract to a competitor, or the reopening of the sealed bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring U.S. government contracts. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to the budget and funding process of the U.S. government. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years but are funded only on an annual basis. Accordingly, our contracts and subcontracts are subject to termination, reduction, or modification in the event of changes in the U.S. government’s requirements funding priorities or budgetary constraints. Budget decisions by the U.S. government may have long-term consequences for our size and structure and that of the defense industry. If one or more of our programs is reduced, extended, or terminated, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional funding and are typically subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding. Congress usually allocates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take several years. At the onset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional funds are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency as funds are made available by Congress for future fiscal years. Contractors often experience revenue uncertainties during the first quarter of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, which begins October 1, until differences between budget requests and appropriations are resolved. To date, Congress has funded all years of the multi-year major program contracts for which we have served as prime contractor or subcontractor, but this may not continue in the future. • We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from the sale of services and products to commercial and government customers. Many of our contracts are for a fixed price and can subject us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. Our revenues on fixed-price contracts are generally recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis and we calculate an estimate of completion to determine revenue for each fixed-price project. As a result, contract price and cost estimates on fixed-price contracts are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in income in the period when the estimates are revised. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance on a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. • Our commercial contracts are subject to competition, strict performance obligations and other requirements. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. Our failure to meet these 14 Table of Contents performance obligations and milestones permits the other party to terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us, any of which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Intense competition in the satellite ground systems industry could harm our financial performance. The satellite ground system industry is very competitive and marked by continuous technological challenges. Several large aerospace/defense contractors have developed satellite control systems either in-house as primary contractors or through subcontractors. As a result, some of our competitors are also current or potential customers. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of large, diversified companies that have access to the financial resources of their parent companies. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies or maintain them as customers while competing with them on other contracts. In addition, several smaller companies have specialized capabilities that compete with the capabilities we offer through our products and services. Our products also face competition from certain off-the-shelf products developed by the U.S. government for satellite command and control. We cannot predict how our competitive position may be affected by changing economic or competitive conditions, customer requirements, or technological developments. We principally obtain contracts and subcontracts through competitive procurements offered by the U.S. government or commercial enterprises. We may not be able to compete successfully. • The new federal administration may reduce aerospace and defense spending, which could adversely affect our business. In January 2009, a new federal administration will take office, and it is widely expected that the new federal administration may reduce defense spending. If defense spending is reduced, it may affect our contracts or our ability to win additional defense contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We are subject to risks associated with our growth strategy and acquiring other companies. We may continue to look for complementary businesses to acquire so that we can strengthen and expand our core business; however, we may not be able to find any attractive candidates or favorable acquisition terms proposed by potential acquisition candidates. We may compete with other companies for these acquisition candidates, which may make an acquisition more expensive for us. Instability in the U.S. securities markets and volatility in our stock price may make acquisitions with our stock more expensive. If we seek to fund acquisitions with borrowed funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on favorable terms or at all, particularly in light of the current difficulties in the credit markets. If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable candidates, we may not be able to expand beyond the growth that we have experienced in the past several fiscal years. Accordingly, our acquisition strategy may not improve, and could possibly weaken, our overall business, financial condition, and results of operations. • We may be exposed to product liability or related claims with respect to our products. Our products are mission-critical parts of sophisticated and extremely expensive satellite and range safety systems. Should a satellite mission fail, should the system’s service become unavailable due to a failure or malfunction in the ground system, or should a space launch vehicle be destroyed as a result of malfunction, we could be sued for product liability or related claims. Moreover, we have found obtaining insurance to cover product liability claims to be impractical and not cost effective. Any product liability or related claim could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents • Our products may become obsolete due to rapid technological change in the satellite industry. Any of our products could become obsolete at any time due to rapid technological changes in the satellite industry. In addition, we may not be able to update our products quickly enough to remain competitive. The rapid pace of technological change in our industry exposes us to risk of loss due to the development of superior technologies by our competitors. We are also dependent upon technologies developed by third parties for integrating our ground systems with a variety of satellite systems. To the extent that we cannot obtain necessary technologies from third parties, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, as land-based telecommunications services expand, demand for certain types of satellite-based services, such as the services we provide, may be reduced. New technology used by our competitors could render satellite-based services less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in alternative ways or through the use of telecommunications standards that are incompatible with our products. In addition, our success depends on our ability to introduce innovative products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis. • Our business is subject to risks associated with international transactions. For fiscal year 2008, approximately 7% of our revenue was derived from our international operations. Conducting business in countries outside the United States carries additional managerial, operational, legal, and political risks. These operations are vulnerable to changes in government regulations and telecommunications standards, tariffs or taxes, and other trade barriers. Our agreements relating to foreign operations may be enforceable only in foreign jurisdictions, which could make it difficult for us to enforce our rights. We currently have several contracts that are subject to currency fluctuations in foreign markets. The value of these contracts is not material. To mitigate currency fluctuation, we may periodically use foreign currency exchange contracts. If we enter into these types of contracts in the future, the limited availability of U.S. currency in certain local markets could prevent a contracting party from making payments to us in U.S. dollars or exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our revenues. We may not enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate currency fluctuation in the future or, even if we do enter into such hedging transactions, they may not protect us from currency fluctuations. Various agencies and departments of the U.S. government regulate our ability to pursue business opportunities outside the United States. Exports of space-related products, services, and technical information require licenses granted by the U.S. government and are subject to International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). We do not currently have blanket authorization for export of our products and services and may not be able to obtain such authorization in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses or approvals on a per-transaction basis, and our inability to do so, or our failure to comply with the terms of the authorization when granted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials that we buy from suppliers. Through our RT Logic and Lumistar subsidiaries, we have several cooperation agreements with a French supplier for certain modem systems that we further customize and deliver to our customers. These agreements are subject to termination by either party. The agreements provide for the support of delivered product in the event of agreement termination. However, our business could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our supplier (such as the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees, or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable 16 Table of Contents to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms, and an unanticipated termination of the cooperation agreements could be disruptive to revenue attainment as we would be unable to bid on additional work that depends on these modems. • We depend upon attracting and retaining a highly skilled professional staff. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly in the area of information technology. We face significant competition for employees with the computer and technology skills required to perform our services and create our products. In addition, we must often comply with provisions in U.S. government contracts that require specified levels of education, work experience, and security clearances for our employees. We may not be successful in attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled and qualified employees in the future. For all of these reasons, the loss of our key technical personnel, or our inability in the future to attract key employees or to relocate them as required by customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We depend on the services of our key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree on our key management personnel, especially the following: • John B. Higginbotham, Chief Executive Officer and President • William M. Bambarger, Jr., Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer • Stuart C. Daughtridge, Executive Vice President, Space Communications Systems Division • James G. Schuetzle, Executive Vice President, Government Division • James B. Kramer, Senior Vice President, Commercial Division • Jeffrey A. Rosolio, Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration and Secretary We have employment agreements with all of these individuals, except for James B. Kramer. The loss of any one of these key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any members of management. • We depend upon intellectual property rights and risk having our rights infringed. Much of our business is derived from work product, software programs, designs, algorithms, methodologies, and other information that we have privately developed. We have historically not sought patent protection for our software, hardware, and systems. Although we seek to protect our intellectual property with a combination of common law and registered trademarks and copyrights, and software license and confidentiality agreements with third parties, these measures may not prevent unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices, or procedures. There is also no guarantee that others may not independently develop similar knowledge, practices, or procedures. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Moreover, we do not have confidentiality agreements with all of our employees. Disclosure or loss of control over our privately developed information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims. Any litigation with respect to our intellectual property rights would be costly and could divert management’s attention, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Adverse determinations in litigation involving our intellectual property could: • result in the loss of our intellectual property rights; • subject us to significant liabilities; 17 Table of Contents • require us to seek licenses from third parties; or • prevent us from selling our services or products. Any one of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Under some U.S. government contracts, we may develop software that in the future we may decide to commercialize. In order to commercialize that software, we might need to invest additional R&D funds to re-market the software as a commercial product. If the product was developed using any government funding, government regulations and contract provisions may prevent us from selling the resulting product to any government agencies. If the primary market for a potential product is government agencies, we may not be able to recover the invested funds through our sales of the product. In addition, the government may acquire certain rights to software programs we develop that are funded under government contracts or subcontracts and may disclose information with respect to those programs or products to third parties, including our competitors. • The estimated backlog under our U.S. government contracts is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under those contracts. Many of our U.S. government contracts are multi-year contracts and contracts with option years, and portions of these contracts are carried forward from one year to the next as part of our contract backlog. Backlog means the total value of all contracts less the revenues earned to date on those contracts. The estimated backlog under a U.S. government contract is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under that contract. Congress normally appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis, even though actual contract performance may take many years. As a result, contracts ordinarily are only partially funded at the time of award, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the contracting agency as Congress makes appropriations in subsequent fiscal years. It is possible that Congress will not appropriate funds or that procuring agencies will not commit funds to our U.S. government contracts for their anticipated terms. In addition, most of our U.S. government contracts have an initial term of one year plus a number of option years. The U.S. government may not extend a particular contract through its option years. Certain of our large contracts provide that we will not receive payment until the services under those contracts are requested and performed. Cancellations or adjustments in the terms of these contracts could occur. In addition, our services under these contracts may not be requested at currently anticipated levels in the future. • Performance of some of our U.S. government contracts may require security clearances. Certain of our contracts with U.S. government agencies require that some of our employees and procedures meet security clearance requirements. If problems develop meeting security clearance requirements, those problems could materially limit our ability to perform these contracts. • Some of our contracts are subject to security classification restrictions. We derive some of our revenues and profits from programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (restricted business), which could limit our ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors might have less insight into our restricted business than our other businesses or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with restricted business. 18 Table of Contents • The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of securities of technology companies has historically faced significant volatility. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • growth rates; • changes in estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in our earnings and revenues or quarterly operating results; • announcements by competitors; • announcements, if any, with respect to our exploration of strategic alternatives; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Adverse developments with respect to any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. • Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size, and scope of our contracts; • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays; • employee productivity; • adequacy of provisions for losses; • accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing contracts; and • general economic conditions Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in a particular period. In this event, the market price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. • We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. Goodwill accounts for approximately $51.4 million, or 34.93%, of our recorded total assets as of September 30, 2008. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If our goodwill were to become significantly impaired, this would require substantial write downs that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents • The disruption, expense, and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We may be subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time. Any litigation, regardless of its merits, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees being borne by us. Further, actions that have been or will be brought against us may be resolved in our favor or, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, we may not have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruptions, legal fees, and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. • We are currently subject to a formal investigation by the SEC and a related inquiry by NASDAQ, which could require significant management attention and legal resources and could have a material adverse effect on us. As previously disclosed, the SEC has issued a formal order of investigation, and NASDAQ has initiated a related inquiry. The investigation and inquiry include questions as to whether Gary A. Prince was acting as a de facto executive officer of the Company prior to his promotion to the position of Executive Vice President and Managing Director of Operations of the Company in August 2006 and questions as to whether Mr. Prince was practicing as an accountant before the SEC while an employee of the Company. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The Board of Directors of the Company has established a Special Committee of independent directors of the Company to supervise our responses to such investigation and inquiry and to investigate related matters. The Special Committee has retained the law firm of Foley Hoag LLP to serve as its independent counsel. We are cooperating fully with the SEC and NASDAQ. We are unable to determine at this time either the timing of the investigation and inquiry, the impact, if any, which the investigation and inquiry could have on us, or the outcome of the investigation or the inquiry. Risks Related to our Restatement of our Unaudited Interim Financial Statements • We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of our restatement of our financial statements. We and certain of our former and existing officers are the subject of a purported class action lawsuit filed on December 15, 2008, following our December 11, 2008 announcement that we would be restating our unaudited interim financial statements for the first three quarters of fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 due to an error in the accounting treatment for certain transactions with respect to the timing of the recognition of revenue between periods due to specific warranty provisions in some of our contracts, accounting for the sale of software licenses and revenue associated with some reimbursable costs on government programs. The restatement of our previously issued interim unaudited financial statements could expose us to government investigation or additional legal action. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our common stock to decline. • Failures in our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could lead to material errors in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Such controls are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that we are providing reliable financial reports. If 20 Table of Contents such controls fail to operate effectively, this may result in material errors in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting may require remediation, which could be costly. Failure to remediate such deficiencies or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to government investigation or legal action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 