ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. Any one of these factors could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. • A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts or subcontracts funded by the U.S. government. The following table lists the approximate revenues, as a percentage of Integral’s total revenues, derived from contracts funded by the U.S. government and by one particular agency of the U.S. government, the Department of the Air Force, for fiscal years 2004, 2005, and 2006. Time Period Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the U.S. government Percentage of revenues derivedfrom contracts and subcontractsfunded by the Department of the Air Force Fiscal year 2004 76 % 55 % Fiscal year 2005 77 % 57 % Fiscal year 2006 79 % 55 % We expect that U.S. government contracts are likely to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the future. For example, we expect that at least 50% of our revenue for fiscal year 2007 will be derived from Department of the Air Force contracts and subcontracts. Accordingly, our financial performance may be adversely affected by changing U.S. government procurement practices and policies as well as declines in U.S. government civilian and defense agency spending. The factors that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win new contracts with the U.S. government, or retain existing contracts, include the following: • budgetary constraints; • changes in U.S. government funding levels, programs, policies, or requirements; • technological developments; • changes in level of U.S. government funds available for services that we provide; • the adoption of new laws or regulations; and • general economic conditions. In addition, some of our U.S. government contracts individually contribute a significant percentage of our revenues. We estimate that our single largest contract with the Department of the Air Force will represent approximately 20% of our revenues for fiscal year 2007. A relatively small number of large U.S. government contracts are likely to continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in the future. Termination of any of these contracts or our inability to renew or replace these contracts when they expire for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination without cause by the U.S. government. All of our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to termination by the U.S. government for “convenience,” which means termination without cause. Should the U.S. government terminate a contract without cause, we would be reimbursed for allowable costs incurred through the date of termination and would be paid a proportionate amount of the stipulated profits or fees attributable to work actually performed. Termination of any of our large U.S. government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to U.S. government regulations and audits. U.S. government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing U.S. government contracts. Any violation of these regulations by us could result in the termination of the contracts, imposition of fines or exclusion from U.S. government contracting and U.S. government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. In addition, our contract costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of audits by the Defense Contract Audit Agency and other U.S. government auditors. We reflect any adjustments required by U.S. government auditors in our financial statements. Although we have thus far not been required to make any material audit adjustments, we cannot assure that adjustments will not be required in the future. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. U.S. government contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, U.S. government contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive process. We cannot assure that we will be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace U.S. government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts with federal U.S. government agencies are subject to competition and awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience, and price. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected to the extent that U.S. government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new U.S. government contract awards also are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of the subject contract to a competitor, or the reopening of the competitive bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring U.S. government contracts. • Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government are subject to the budget and funding process of the U.S. government. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years but are funded only on an annual basis. Accordingly, our contracts and subcontracts are subject to termination, reduction, or modification in the event of changes in the U.S. government’s requirements or budgetary constraints. In addition, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional funding and are typically subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding. Congress usually allocates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take several years. Consequently, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional funds are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency as funds are made available by Congress 15 Table of Contents for future fiscal years. In addition, contractors often experience revenue uncertainties during the first quarter of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, which begins October 1, until differences between budget requests and appropriations are resolved. To date, Congress has funded all years of the multi-year major program contracts for which we have served as prime contractor or subcontractor, although we cannot assure that this will continue in the future. Additionally, when we participate in a project as a subcontractor, we are subject to the risk that the prime contractor may fail or be unable to perform the prime contract. • Our commercial contracts are subject to competition and strict performance and other requirements. Although a significant portion of our revenues (21% in fiscal year 2006) are generated from the sale of our services and products in commercial markets, we cannot assure that we will continue to compete successfully in these markets. Many of our commercial contracts are for a fixed price. This subjects us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. In addition, our revenues on fixed-price contracts are recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis. This means that we calculate a ratio of costs incurred to costs expected to be incurred for each fixed-price job and then multiply that same ratio by the fixed-price contract value to determine total revenue for each fixed-price job. As a result, contract price and cost estimates on fixed-price contracts are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in income in the period when the estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a loss, reduction, or elimination of previously reported profits, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In connection with certain commercial contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit, or similar guarantees. We cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining or retaining these types of guarantees or that the guarantees available will be affordable in the future. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. Our failure to meet these performance obligations and milestones permits the other party to terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us, any of which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We may not be able to effectively manage any continued growth. Our revenues increased during fiscal years 2002 through 2006 at an average annual rate of 25%. However, the revenue growth from fiscal year 2005 to fiscal year 2006 was 19%. The revenue projection for fiscal year 2007 is greater than the results posted for fiscal year 2006. There is no assurance that our projections will in fact be achieved and these projections do not reflect any acquisitions or divestitures that may occur in the future. Continued growth could place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, financial controls, and other resources. Any future expansion will require us to attract, retain, train, motivate, and manage new employees successfully. We would also need to integrate new management and employees into our overall operations, and continue to improve our operational, financial, and management systems and controls and facilities. Our failure to manage any expansion effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Intense competition in the satellite ground system industry could harm our financial performance. We experience significant competition. Approximately one dozen large aerospace/defense contractors have developed satellite control systems either in-house as primary contractors or through subcontractors. As a result, some of our competitors are also current or potential customers. Our competitors include the following: • Lockheed Martin Corporation 16 Table of Contents • Boeing Satellite Systems • Northrop Grumman • Honeywell International, Inc. (formerly AlliedSignal) • General Dynamics • Computer Sciences Corporation • Alcatel Alenia Space • Astrium • Raytheon Company • Intelsat • GMV • Harris • L3 • SS/L • Orbital Sciences Corporation Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of large, diversified companies that have access to the financial resources of their parent companies. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete effectively with these companies or maintain them as customers while competing with them on other projects. In addition, several smaller companies have specialized capabilities in similar areas. Our products also face competition from certain off-the-shelf products developed by the U.S. government for satellite command and control. We cannot predict how our competitive position may be affected by changing economic or competitive conditions, customer requirements, or technological developments. We principally obtain contracts and subcontracts through competitive procurements offered by the U.S. government or commercial enterprises. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully. • We are subject to risks associated with our strategy of acquiring other companies. We may continue to look for complementary businesses to acquire so that we can strengthen and expand our core business. However, we may not be able to find any attractive candidates or we may find that the acquisition terms proposed by potential acquisition candidates are not favorable to us. In addition, we may compete with other companies for these acquisition candidates, which may make an acquisition more expensive for us. Similarly, instability in the U.S. securities markets and volatility in our stock price may make acquisitions with our stock more expensive. If we are unable to identify and acquire any suitable candidates, we may not be able to find alternative uses for the cash proceeds of our previous private placements that improve our business, financial condition, or results of operations to the extent that an acquisition could. Accordingly, our acquisition strategy may not improve our overall business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could weaken them. Further, the integration of the companies and assets we have acquired or, if we are able to identify and acquire one or more businesses, may acquire may be costly and may result in a decrease in our revenues or a decrease in the value of our common stock for the following reasons, among others: • we may not have adequately assessed the risks inherent in the companies or assets we have acquired or correctly assessed the potential contribution of those companies or assets to our financial performance, and in the future we may not adequately assess the risks inherent in a particular acquisition candidate or correctly assess the candidate’s potential contribution to our financial performance; • we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; • the difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds, and combining different corporate cultures; • we may not eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipated in selecting the companies or assets we have acquired or may acquire; and 17 Table of Contents • the companies or assets we have acquired or may acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we failed to discover through our diligence prior to the acquisition. Consequently, any acquisition by us may not improve our business, financial condition, and results of operations in either the short-term or long-term. • We may be exposed to product liability or related claims with respect to our products. Our products are mission-critical parts of sophisticated and extremely expensive satellite and range safety systems. Should a satellite mission fail, or should the system’s service become unavailable due to a failure or malfunction in the ground system, or should a space launch vehicle be destroyed as a result of malfunction, we could be sued for product liability or related claims. Moreover, we have found obtaining insurance to cover product liability claims to be impractical. Any product liability or related claim could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • Our products may become obsolete due to rapid technological change in the satellite industry. Any of our products could become obsolete at any time due to rapid technological changes in the satellite industry. In addition, we may not be able to update our products quickly enough to remain competitive. The rapid pace of technological change in our industry exposes us to risk of loss due to the development of superior technologies by our competitors. We are also dependent upon technologies developed by third parties for integrating our ground systems with a variety of satellite systems. To the extent that we cannot obtain necessary technologies from third parties, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, as land-based telecommunications services expand, demand for certain types of satellite-based services, such as the services we provide, may be reduced. New technology used by our competitors could render satellite-based services less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in alternative ways or through the use of telecommunications standards that are incompatible with our products. In addition, our success depends on our ability to introduce innovative products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis. • Our business is subject to risks associated with international transactions. In addition to having contracts with the U.S. government and other U.S. commercial organizations, we also have contracts with international organizations. For fiscal years 2005 and 2006, approximately 11% of our revenues each year were derived from international organizations. Operations in numerous countries outside the United States carry substantial managerial, operational, legal, and political uncertainties. These operations are subject to changes in government regulations and telecommunications standards, tariffs or taxes, and other trade barriers. In addition, our agreements relating to foreign operations may be enforceable only in foreign jurisdictions so that it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights. We currently have two contracts that are subject to currency fluctuations in foreign markets. The value of these contracts is not material. However, to mitigate currency fluctuation, we periodically use foreign currency exchange contracts (see Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein). If we enter into these types of contracts in the future, the limited availability of U.S. currency in certain local markets could prevent a contracting party from making payments to us in U.S. dollars or exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our revenues. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate currency fluctuation in the future. Various agencies and departments of the U.S. government regulate our ability to pursue business opportunities outside the United States. Exports of space-related products, services, and technical information require licenses granted by the U.S. government. We do not currently have blanket authorization for export of our products and services. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain blanket export authorization in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain necessary licenses or approvals on a per-transaction basis, and our inability to do so, or our failure to comply with the terms of the authorization when granted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 18 Table of Contents • Our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials that we buy from suppliers. Through our RT Logic subsidiary, we have several Cooperation Agreements with a French supplier for certain modem systems we further customize and deliver to customers. These agreements are subject to termination by either party. To date, our relationship with the supplier is very good. The agreements provide for the support of delivered product in the event of agreement termination. However, our business could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our supplier (such as the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms, and an unanticipated termination of the cooperation agreements could be disruptive to revenue attainment as we would be unable to bid additional work that depends on the modems. • We depend upon attracting and retaining a highly skilled professional staff. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly in the area of information technology. We face significant competition for employees with the computer and technology skills required to perform our services and create our products. In addition, we must often comply with provisions in U.S. government contracts that require specified levels of education, work experience, and security clearances for our employees. We cannot assure that we will be successful in attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled and qualified employees in the future. For all of these reasons, the loss of our key technical personnel, or our inability in the future to attract key employees or to relocate them as required by customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. • We depend on the services of our key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree on our key management personnel, especially the following: • Peter J. Gaffney, Chief Executive Officer • Thomas L. Gough, President • Gary A. Prince, Executive Vice President and Managing Director of Operations • Elaine M. Brown, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer • Patrick Woods, Executive Vice President, Business Development • Stuart Daughtridge, Executive Vice President, Commercial Segment • James Schuetzle, Executive Vice President, Government Division We do not have employment agreements with any of these individuals. The loss of any one of these management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any members of management. • We depend upon intellectual property rights and risk having our rights infringed. Much of our business is derived from work product, software programs, designs, algorithms, methodologies, and other information that we have privately developed. We have made a strategic decision after discussion with intellectual property counsel not to seek patent protection for our software, hardware, and systems. We have registered many of our trademarks. Although we seek to protect our intellectual property with a combination of common law and registered trademarks and copyrights, and software license and confidentiality agreements with third parties, we cannot assure that these measures will prevent unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices, or procedures, or that others may not independently develop similar knowledge, practices, or procedures. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Moreover, we do not have confidentiality agreements with all 19 Table of Contents of our employees. Disclosure or loss of control over our privately developed information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims. Any litigation with respect to our intellectual property rights would be costly and could divert management’s attention, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Adverse determinations in litigation involving our intellectual property could: • Result in the loss of our intellectual property rights; • subject us to significant liabilities; • require us to seek licenses from third parties; or • prevent us from selling our services or products. Any one of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Under some government contracts, we may develop software that in the future we may decide to commercialize. In order to commercialize that software, we might need to invest additional research and development funds to re-market the software as a commercial product. If the product was developed using any government funding, government regulations and contract provisions may prevent us from selling the resulting product to any government agencies. If the primary market for a potential product is government agencies, we may not be able to recover invested funds through sale of the product. In addition, the government may acquire certain rights to software programs we develop that are funded under government contracts or subcontracts and may disclose information with respect to those programs or products to third parties, including our competitors. • The estimated backlog under our U.S. government contracts is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under the contracts. Many of our U.S. government contracts are multi-year contracts and contracts with option years, and portions of these contracts are carried forward from one year to the next as part of our contract backlog. Backlog means the total value of all contracts less the revenues earned on those same contracts. The estimated backlog under a U.S. government contract is not necessarily indicative of revenues that will actually be realized under that contract. Congress normally appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis, even though actual contract performance may take many years. As a result, contracts ordinarily are only partially funded at the time of award, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the contracting agency as Congress makes appropriations in subsequent fiscal years. There can be no assurance that Congress will appropriate funds or that procuring agencies will commit funds to our U.S. government contracts for their anticipated terms. In addition, most of our U.S. government contracts have an initial term of one year plus a number of option years. We cannot assure that the U.S. government will extend a contract through its option years. Certain of our large contracts provide that we will not receive payment until the services under those contracts are requested and performed. We cannot assure that cancellations or adjustments in the terms of these contracts might not occur. In addition, our services under these contracts may not be requested at currently anticipated levels in the future. • Performance of some of our U.S. government contracts may require security clearance. Some of our contracts with U.S. government agencies require that some of our employees and procedures meet security clearance requirements. If problems develop meeting security clearance requirements, those problems could materially limit our ability to perform these contracts. • The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of securities of technology companies has historically faced significant volatility. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; 20 Table of Contents • growth rates; • changes in estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in our earnings and revenues or quarterly operating results; • announcements by competitors; • announcements, if any, with respect to our exploration of strategic alternatives; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Any of these events would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. • Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size, and scope of our projects; • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays; • employee productivity; • adequacy of provisions for losses; • accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing projects; and • general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in a particular period. In this event, the market price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. • The Company has substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce the Company’s operating income. Goodwill accounts for approximately $53 million of the Company’s recorded total assets. The Company evaluates the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. • The Company has measures in place that could impede the takeover of the Company or make it difficult for its stockholders to remove its board of directors or management. We have various measures in place, any one or more of which may impede or make more difficult a takeover of the Company without the approval of our board of directors, which may discourage acquisition bids with respect to the Company, or which may prevent our stockholders from taking part in a transaction in which they could realize a premium over the current market price of our common stock. Further, these measures also may affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These measures include provisions in our charter or bylaws that: • provide for a classified, or “staggered,” board of directors; • require the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders generally in the election of directors to remove a director, and then only for cause; 21 Table of Contents • provide for fixing the number of directors only by a vote of directors; • provide for filling vacancies on the board only by the vote of the remaining directors; and • establish the requirements and procedures for calling special meetings of stockholders, including a provision that provides that the secretary of the Company may only call a special meeting of the stockholders upon the request of the stockholders on the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting. • The disruption, expense and potential liability associated with existing and future litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time. We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, individually or in the aggregate, we believe, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. However, any litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees being borne by us. Further, there can be no assurance that any actions that have been or will be brought against us will be resolved in our favor or, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, that we will have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruptions, legal fees and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • The Company currently is subject to informal inquiries by the SEC and NASDAQ, which could require significant management attention and legal resources and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. As previously disclosed, the SEC and NASDAQ have initiated informal inquiries about the circumstances related to Bonnie K. Wachtel’s refusal to stand for re-election as a director of the Company, which inquiries include questions as to whether Gary A. Prince, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Managing Director of Operations, was acting as a de facto executive officer of the Company prior to his promotion to his current position with the Company in August 2006 and questions as to whether Mr. Prince was practicing as an accountant before the SEC while an employee of the Company. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The Board of Directors of the Company has established a Special Committee of independent directors of the Company to supervise the Company’s responses to such inquiries and to investigate matters related to the inquiries. The Special Committee has retained the law firm of Foley Hoag, LLP, to serve as its independent counsel. The Company is cooperating fully with the SEC and NASDAQ. We are unable to determine at this time either the timing of these inquiries and investigations, the impact, if any, which these inquiries and investigations could have on the Company, or the outcome of these inquiries and investigations. • We cannot predict the outcome of the strategic alternative process. As previously reported by the Company, the Company has engaged BB&T Capital Markets | Windsor Group as an investment banker to explore strategic alternatives to maximize stockholder value, including a possible sale of the Company. See “Item 1. Business – Strategic Alternatives.” There can be no assurance as to the outcome of the strategic alternatives process, that any particular strategic alternative will be pursued or that any transaction will occur. In addition, • the exploration of strategic alternatives may distract management and disrupt operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; • we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us; • the process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and expensive; and • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of employees, customers or business partners. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 