ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following summarizes the most significant risk factors to our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Any of these risk factors, either individually or in combination, could have significant adverse impacts to our results of operations and financial condition, or prevent us from meeting our profitability or growth objectives. Risks Related to our Customer Concentration and Cyclical Nature of the E&P Industry We derive a significant portion of our revenues from companies in the E&P industry, and our customer base is highly concentrated in major and independent oil and gas E&P companies operating in the markets that we serve. In 2009, approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues were derived from our 20 largest customers. The E&P industry is historically cyclical, with levels of activity generally affected by the following factors: • current oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices • the cost to explore for, produce and deliver oil and gas • the discovery rate for new oil and gas reserves • the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital • domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions • government regulations regarding environmental protection, taxation, price controls and product allocation 5 Table of Contents Because of the cyclical nature of our industry and our customer concentration, our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in future periods. A prolonged decline in industry drilling rig activity or the loss of any of our large customers could materially affect the demand for our services. Because our business has high fixed costs, including significant facility and personnel expenses, downtime or low productivity due to reduced demand can have significant adverse impact on our profitability. Risks Related to the Availability of Raw Materials and Skilled Personnel Our ability to provide products and services to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain the raw materials and qualified personnel necessary to operate our business. Barite is a naturally occurring mineral that constitutes a significant portion of our drilling fluids systems. We currently secure the majority of our barite ore from foreign sources, primarily China and India. The availability and cost of barite ore is dependent on factors beyond our control including power shortages, political priorities and government imposed export fees in China as well as natural disasters such as the 2008 earthquake in Sichuan Province, China. The availability and cost of barite ore is further impacted by inland transportation and ocean freight. Due to recent wide swings in world wide demand for raw materials, the cost of transportation has fluctuated significantly. Significant fluctuations in either the cost of raw materials, including barite ore or their transportation costs, may impact our profitability. Our business is also highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled engineers, technical sales and service personnel. The market for these employees is very competitive, and if we cannot attract and retain quality personnel, our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business will be severely limited. Also a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force or an increase in our operating costs. Risk Related to our Market Competition We face competition in the Fluids Systems and Engineering business, where there are several companies larger than us that may have access to more capital, at lower costs, and greater geographic coverage. Numerous smaller companies also compete against us in the drilling fluids market. Our competition in the Mats and Integrated Services business is very fragmented and competitive, with nine to ten competitors providing various forms of wooden mat products and services. No domestic competitors provide a product similar to our DuraBasetm composite mat system at the present time. Competition in the Environmental Services market could increase as the industry continues to develop, which could put downward pressure on our margins. We also face competition from efforts by oil and gas producing customers to improve their own methods of disposal and waste elimination. Risks Related to the Cost and Continued Availability of Borrowed Funds We employ borrowed funds as an integral part of our long-term capital structure and our future success is dependent upon continued access to borrowed funds to support our operations. The availability of borrowed funds on reasonable terms is dependent on the condition of credit markets and financial institutions from which these funds are obtained. Adverse events in the financial markets, such as those experienced over the past two years, may significantly reduce the availability of funds, which may have an adverse effect on our cost of borrowings and our ability to fund our business strategy. Adverse events in the financial markets may also negatively impact our customers, as many of them finance their drilling and production operations through borrowed funds. The reduced availability and increased cost of borrowing could cause our customers to reduce their spending on drilling programs, thereby reducing demand and potentially pricing for our products and services. Our ability to meet our debt service requirements and the continued availability of funds under our existing credit agreement is dependent upon our ability to continue generating operating income and remain in compliance with the covenants in our credit agreements. This, in turn, is subject to the volatile nature of the E&P industry, and to competitive, economic, financial and other factors that are beyond our control. We were not in compliance with our 6 Table of Contents covenant requirements as of June 30, 2009 and as a result, entered into the First Amendment to our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“First Amendment”) to obtain temporary relief from these requirements. Under the First Amendment, the covenants return to their original levels as of June 30, 2010. If we are unable to maintain compliance with our modified covenant requirements, our borrowing costs may increase, or our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding under our credit agreements immediately due and payable. The lenders also could terminate all commitments under the facility and enforce their rights to security interests in substantially all of our U.S. assets. At December 31, 2009, $93.0 million of debt outstanding bears interest at variable rates. During 2009, borrowing rate indexes in the U.S. were at historic lows, which served to benefit our interest expense during the period. Any increases in borrowing rate indexes from current levels will increase our interest costs on our existing variable-rate debt or indebtedness incurred in the future. Risks Related to International Operations We have significant operations outside of the United Stated, including certain areas of Europe, North Africa, Brazil, Canada and Mexico. In 2009, these international operations generated approximately one-third of our consolidated revenues. In addition, we may seek to expand to other areas outside the United States in the future. International operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties and cost associated with complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations • unexpected changes in regulatory environments or tax laws • legal uncertainties, timing delays and expenses associated with tariffs, export licenses and other trade barriers • difficulties enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems • risks associated with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar U.S. laws applicable to our operations in international markets • exchange controls or other limitations on international currency movements • sanctions imposed by the U.S. government to prevent us from engaging in business in certain countries • inability to preserve certain intellectual property rights in the foreign countries in which we operate • our inexperience in new international markets • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates • political and economic instability Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters, Including Environmental Regulations We are responsible for complying with numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our current and past business activities, including the activities of our former subsidiaries. Failure to remain compliant with these laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations, or other expenditures. Further, any changes in the current legal and regulatory environment could impact industry activity and the demands for our products and services, the scope of products and services that we provide, or our cost structure required to provide our products and services. We believe that the demand for our services in the Environmental Services business is directly related to regulation of E&P waste. In particular, E&P waste is currently exempt from the principal federal statute governing the handling of hazardous waste. In recent years, proposals have been made to rescind this exemption. If the exemption covering this type of E&P waste is repealed or modified, or if the regulations interpreting the rules 7 Table of Contents regarding the treatment or disposal of E&P waste or NORM waste were changed, it could have a material adverse effect on this business. The markets for our products and services are dependent on the continued exploration for and production of fossil fuels (predominantly oil and natural gas). In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) published findings that the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases are contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, presenting an endangerment to human health and the environment. Further, the EPA has recently proposed regulations that could potentially limit greenhouse gas emissions and impose reporting obligations on large greenhouse emission sources. To the extent that laws and regulations enacted as part of climate change legislation increase the costs of drilling for or producing such fossil fuels, or reduce the demand for fossil fuels, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Risks Related to the Inherent Limitations of Insurance Coverage While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limitations. Specific risks and limitations of our insurance coverage include the following: • self-insured retention limits on each claim, which are our responsibility • exclusions for certain types of liabilities and limitations on coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination • coverage limits of the policies, and the risk that claims will exceed policy limits • the financial strength and ability of our insurance carriers to meet their obligations under the policies In addition, our ability to continue to obtain insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms is dependent upon a variety of factors impacting the insurance industry in general, which are outside our control. Any of the issues noted above, including insurance cost increases, uninsured or underinsured claims, or the inability of an insurance carrier to meet their financial obligations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Risks Related to Potential Impairments of Long-lived Intangible Assets As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet includes $62.3 million in goodwill and $16.0 million of intangible assets, net. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently as the circumstances require, using a combination of market multiple and discounted cash flow approaches. In completing this annual evaluation during the fourth quarter of 2009, we determined that no reporting unit has a fair value below its net carrying value, and therefore, no impairment is required. However, while our analysis indicated that the fair value of our drilling fluids business remains significantly in excess of carrying value, our mats and integrated services reporting unit exceeded net carrying value by less than 10%. If the financial performance or future projections for our Mats and Integrated Services segment or our other operating segments deteriorate from current levels, a future impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be required, which would negatively impact our financial results, in the period of impairment. As of December 31, 2009, the consolidated balance sheet includes $14.9 million of goodwill for the Mats and Integrated Services segment. Risks Related to Technological Developments in our Industry The market for our products and services is characterized by continual technological developments that generate substantial improvements in product functions and performance. If we are not successful in continuing to develop product enhancements or new products that are accepted in the marketplace or that comply with industry standards, we could lose market share to competitors, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We hold U.S. and foreign patents for certain of our drilling fluids components and our mat systems. In our Environmental Services business, we also hold U.S. patents on certain aspects of our system to process and dispose of E&P waste, including E&P waste that is contaminated with NORM. However, these patents are not a guarantee 8 Table of Contents that we will have a meaningful advantage over our competitors, and there is a risk that others may develop systems that are substantially equivalent to those covered by our patents. If that were to happen, we would face increased competition from both a service and a pricing standpoint. In addition, costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our patents and proprietary rights. It is possible that future innovation could change the way companies drill for oil and gas, reduce the amount of waste that is generated from drilling activities or create new methods of disposal or new types of drilling fluids. This could reduce the competitive advantages we may derive from our patents and other proprietary technology. Risks Related to Severe Weather, Particularly in the U.S. Gulf Coast Approximately 31% of our consolidated revenue in 2009 was generated in market areas in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and related near-shore areas, which are susceptible to hurricanes and other adverse weather events, such as those which occurred in 2005 and 2008. These weather events can disrupt our operations and result in damage to our properties, as well as negatively impact the activity and financial condition of our customers. Our business may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or other adverse weather events. Risks Related to Fluctuations in the Market Value of our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the general economy, stock market conditions, general trends in the E&P industry, announcements made by us or our competitors, and variations in our operating results. Investors may not be able to predict the timing or extent of these fluctuations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 