ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following summarizes the most significant risk factors to our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Any of these risk factors, either individually or in combination, could have significant adverse impacts to our results of operations and financial condition, or prevent us from meeting our profitability or growth objectives. 7 Risks Related to the Availability of Raw Materials and Skilled Personnel Our ability to provide products and services to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain the raw materials and qualified personnel necessary to operate our business. Barite is a naturally occurring mineral that constitutes a significant portion of our drilling fluids systems. We currently secure the majority of our barite ore from foreign sources, primarily China and India. The availability and cost of barite ore is dependent on factors beyond our control including transportation, political priorities and government imposed export fees in China as well as natural disasters such as the 2008 earthquake in Sichuan Province, China. During 2011, there has been a significant increase in world-wide demand for barite ore, and as result, we have experienced significant cost increases in barite ore sourced from China. Our operating costs in future periods may continue to increase as a result of the increased demand in barite ore and we may be unable to offset these cost increases with customer pricing, which may result in a reduction in future profitability. Further, the future supply of barite ore from existing sources could be inadequate to meet the current market demand, which could ultimately result in a reduction in industry activity, or our inability to meet our customer’s needs. Our business is also highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled engineers, technical sales and service personnel. The market for these employees is very competitive, and if we cannot attract and retain quality personnel, our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business will be severely limited. Also, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force or an increase in our operating costs. Risks Related to the Impact of Restrictions on Offshore Drilling Activity in the Gulf of Mexico In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig sank in the Gulf of Mexico after an explosion and fire, resulting in the discharge of oil from the well. Following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, the Department of Interior of the U.S. government took several actions aimed at restricting and temporarily prohibiting certain drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico. While the Department of Interior has since announced the formal end of the drilling moratorium placed in effect in May 2010, increased permitting requirements are applicable to both shallow water and deepwater drilling activities. As a result, drilling activity in the affected areas of the Gulf of Mexico have not yet recovered to first quarter 2010 levels, and the near-term outlook remains uncertain. In addition to the recent restrictions, we cannot predict whether changes in laws and regulations concerning operations in the Gulf of Mexico, or more generally throughout the U.S. will be enacted. Significant changes in regulations regarding future exploration and production activities in the Gulf of Mexico or other government or regulatory actions could reduce drilling and production activity, or increase the costs of our services, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Risks Related to our Customer Concentration and Cyclical Nature of the E&P Industry We derive a significant portion of our revenues from companies in the E&P industry, and our customer base is highly concentrated in major integrated and independent oil and gas E&P companies operating in the markets that we serve. In 2011, approximately 44% of our consolidated revenues were derived from our 20 largest customers. While no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, one customer in our mats and integrated services segment accounted for 26% of segment revenues. The E&P industry is historically cyclical, with levels of activity generally affected by the following factors: • current oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices • the cost to explore for, produce and deliver oil and gas • the discovery rate for new oil and gas reserves • the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital • domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions • government regulations regarding environmental protection, taxation, price controls and product allocation 8 Because of the cyclical nature of our industry and our customer concentration, our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in future periods. A prolonged decline in industry drilling rig activity or the loss of any of our large customers could materially affect the demand for our services. Because our business has high fixed costs, including significant facility and personnel expenses, downtime or low productivity due to reduced demand can have significant adverse impact on our profitability. Risk Related to our Market Competition We face competition in the Fluids Systems and Engineering business from larger companies, which compete vigorously on fluids performance and/or price. In addition, these companies have broad product and service offerings in addition to their drilling fluids. We also have smaller regional competitors competing with us mainly on price and local relationships. Our competition in the Mats and Integrated Services business is very fragmented and competitive, with nine to ten competitors providing various forms of mat products and services. Competition in the Environmental Services market could increase as the industry continues to develop, which could put downward pressure on our margins. We also face competition from efforts by oil and gas producing customers to improve their own methods of disposal and waste elimination. Risks Related to the Cost and Continued Availability of Borrowed Funds We employ borrowed funds as an integral part of our long-term capital structure and our future success is dependent upon continued access to borrowed funds to support our operations. The availability of borrowed funds on reasonable terms is dependent on the condition of credit markets and financial institutions from which these funds are obtained. Adverse events in the financial markets, such as those experienced in recent years, may significantly reduce the availability of funds, which may have an adverse effect on our cost of borrowings and our ability to fund our business strategy. Adverse events in the financial markets may also negatively impact our customers, as many of them finance their drilling and production operations through borrowed funds. The reduced availability and increased cost of borrowing could cause our customers to reduce their spending on drilling programs, thereby reducing demand and potentially pricing for our products and services. Our ability to meet our debt service requirements and the continued availability of funds under our existing or future credit agreements is dependent upon our ability to continue generating operating income and remain in compliance with the covenants in our credit agreements. This, in turn, is subject to the volatile nature of the E&P industry, and to competitive, economic, financial and other factors that are beyond our control. Risks Related to International Operations We have significant operations outside of the United States, including certain areas of Canada, EMEA, Brazil, and Asia Pacific. In 2011, these international operations generated approximately 28% of our consolidated revenues. In addition, we may seek to expand to other areas outside the United States in the future. International operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties and cost associated with complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations • unexpected changes in regulatory environments or tax laws • legal uncertainties, timing delays and expenses associated with tariffs, export licenses and other trade barriers • difficulties enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems • risks associated with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar U.S. laws applicable to our operations in international markets • exchange controls or other limitations on international currency movements 9 • sanctions imposed by the U.S. government to prevent us from engaging in business in certain countries • inability to preserve certain intellectual property rights in the foreign countries in which we operate • our inexperience in new international markets • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates • political and economic instability • In addition, several of the markets in which we operate, including Italy, Romania, and Hungary are currently experiencing economic uncertainties, which could negatively impact our operations and profitability In 2011, several international markets in which we operate, including Tunisia, Egypt and Libya experienced political unrest, which negatively impacted our operating results, including the temporary shut-down of our operations in Libya. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters, Including Environmental Regulations We are responsible for complying with numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our current and past business activities, including the activities of our former subsidiaries. Failure to remain compliant with these laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations, or other expenditures. Further, any changes in the current legal and regulatory environment could impact industry activity and the demands for our products and services, the scope of products and services that we provide, or our cost structure required to provide our products and services. We believe that the demand for our services in the Environmental Services business is directly related to regulation of E&P waste. In particular, E&P waste is currently exempt from the principal federal statute governing the handling of hazardous waste. In recent years, proposals have been made to rescind this exemption. If the exemption covering this type of E&P waste is repealed or modified, or if the regulations interpreting the rules regarding the treatment or disposal of E&P waste or NORM waste were changed, it could have a material adverse effect on this business. The markets for our products and services are dependent on the continued exploration for and production of fossil fuels (predominantly oil and natural gas). In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) published findings that the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases are contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, presenting an endangerment to human health and the environment. Further, federal legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases has been considered and many states have taken measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The EPA has adopted regulations that potentially limit greenhouse gas emissions and impose reporting obligations on large greenhouse gas emission sources. In addition, the EPA has proposed rules that could require reduction of certain air emissions during exploration and production of oil and gas. To the extent that laws and regulations enacted as part of climate change legislation increase the costs of drilling for or producing such fossil fuels, or reduce the demand for fossil fuels, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Hydraulic fracturing is an increasingly common practice used by E&P operators to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly from shale oil and gas formations in the United States. The process of hydraulic fracturing, which involves the injection of sand laden fluids into oil and gas bearing zones, has come under increasing scrutiny from a variety of regulatory agencies, including the EPA and various state authorities. Several states have adopted regulations requiring operators to identify the chemicals used in fracturing operations. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential impact of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water, with the preliminary results expected to be released in 2012. Further, the EPA has announced plans to develop effluent limitations associated with wastewater generated by hydraulic fracturing. To the extent that any of these ongoing studies or initiatives lead to regulations which have the effect of limiting the use or availability of hydraulic fracturing, such developments could have a significant negative impact on the drilling activity levels of our customers, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 10 Risks Related to the Inherent Limitations of Insurance Coverage While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limitations. Specific risks and limitations of our insurance coverage include the following: • self-insured retention limits on each claim, which are our responsibility • exclusions for certain types of liabilities and limitations on coverage for damages resulting from pollution • coverage limits of the policies, and the risk that claims will exceed policy limits • the financial strength and ability of our insurance carriers to meet their obligations under the policies In addition, our ability to continue to obtain insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms is dependent upon a variety of factors impacting the insurance industry in general, which are outside our control. Any of the issues noted above, including insurance cost increases, uninsured or underinsured claims, or the inability of an insurance carrier to meet their financial obligations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Risks Related to Potential Impairments of Long-lived Intangible Assets As of December 31, 2011, our consolidated balance sheet includes $72.0 million in goodwill and $20.9 million of intangible assets, net. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently as the circumstances require, using a combination of market multiple and discounted cash flow approaches. In completing this annual evaluation during the fourth quarter of 2011, we determined that no reporting unit has a fair value below its net carrying value, and therefore, no impairment is required. However, if the financial performance or future projections for our operating segments deteriorate from current levels, a future impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be required, which would negatively impact our financial results, in the period of impairment. Risks Related to Technological Developments in our Industry The market for our products and services is characterized by continual technological developments that generate substantial improvements in product functions and performance. If we are not successful in continuing to develop product enhancements or new products that are accepted in the marketplace or that comply with industry standards, we could lose market share to competitors, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We hold U.S. and foreign patents for certain of our drilling fluids components and our mat systems. In our Environmental Services business, we also hold U.S. patents on certain aspects of our system to process and dispose of E&P waste, including E&P waste that is contaminated with NORM. However, these patents are not a guarantee that we will have a meaningful advantage over our competitors, and there is a risk that others may develop systems that are substantially equivalent to those covered by our patents. If that were to happen, we would face increased competition from both a service and a pricing standpoint. In addition, costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our patents and proprietary rights. It is possible that future innovation could change the way companies drill for oil and gas, reduce the amount of waste that is generated from drilling activities or create new methods of disposal or new types of drilling fluids. This could reduce the competitive advantages we may derive from our patents and other proprietary technology. Risks Related to Severe Weather, Particularly in the U.S. Gulf Coast Approximately 24% of our consolidated revenue in 2011 was generated in market areas in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and related near-shore areas, which are susceptible to hurricanes and other adverse weather events, such as those which occurred in 2005 and 2008. These weather events can disrupt our operations and result in damage to our properties, as well as negatively impact the activity and financial condition of our customers. Our business may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or other adverse weather events. 11 Risks Related to Capital Investments and Business Acquisitions Our ability to successfully execute our business strategy will depend, among other things, on our ability to make capital investments and acquisitions which provide us with financial benefits. Our 2012 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $50-$60 million, including additional investments in our manufacturing and research and development facilities, expansion of our field equipment, as well as additions to our composite mat rental fleet. These anticipated investments, along with any future investments, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • incorrect assumptions regarding the future benefits or results from our capital investments, any of acquired operations or assets • failure to complete a planned acquisition transaction or to successfully integrate the operations or management of any acquired businesses or assets in a timely manner • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities • unanticipated disruptions to our business associated with the implementation of our enterprise-wide operational and financial system • failure of new enterprise-wide operational and financial system to function as intended Any of the factors above could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Fluctuations in the Market Value of our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the general economy, stock market conditions, general trends in the E&P industry, announcements made by us or our competitors, and variations in our operating results. Investors may not be able to predict the timing or extent of these fluctuations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 