ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We derive a significant portion of our revenues from companies in the E&P industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and natural gas prices Prices for oil and natural gas are volatile, and this volatility affects the demand for our services. A material decline in oil or natural gas prices or activities could materially affect the demand for our services. Because our business has high fixed costs, downtime or low productivity due to reduced demand can negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be impacted by changes in oil and gas supply and demand, which are generally affected by the following factors: • oil and natural gas prices; • expectations about future prices; • the cost to explore for, produce and deliver oil and gas; • the discovery rate for new oil and gas reserves; • the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; • domestic and international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; and • government regulations regarding, among other things, environmental protection, taxation, price controls and product allocation. The potential fluctuations in the level of future oil and gas industry activity or demand for our services and products are difficult, if not impossible, to predict. There may be times when oil and gas industry activity or demand for our services is less than expected. 5 Table of Contents Our operating results have fluctuated during recent years, and these fluctuations may continue. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience in the future, fluctuations in our yearly and quarterly operating results. It is possible that we will not realize expected earnings growth and that earnings in any particular year or quarter will fall short of either a prior fiscal year or quarter or investors’ expectations. If this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. The following factors, in addition to others not listed, may affect our operating results in the future: • fluctuations in the oil and gas industry; • competition; • the ability to manage and control our operating costs; • the rate and extent of acceptance of our drilling fluids products and our composite mats; and • the ability to integrate strategic acquisitions. The cost of barite recently has been volatile, and this volatility may continue, which may have an adverse effect on our fluids systems and engineering segment. Barite is a naturally occurring mineral that, when processed, constitutes a significant portion of many drilling fluids systems. We currently secure all our barite ore from foreign sources, primarily China and India. The cost of barite from these regions has fluctuated significantly due to numerous factors. The largest of these cost factors are inland transportation and ocean freight. Due to recent wide swings in world demand for raw materials produced in both China and India and the rapidly expanding economies of these countries, the cost of all forms of transportation has increased to an unprecedented level. These transportation costs have been further stressed due to increased world oil costs. In addition to the volatility of shipping costs, basic mineral production and processing costs also have experienced upward pressures. These factors include the distance of mineral reserves from shipping ports, dwindling reserves, internal labor cost increases due to increased safety regulations and cost of living adjustments as well as increased supply and demand pressures. Recent currency exchange rate fluctuations also have contributed to the upward cost trend. If we are unable to reduce these costs or increase the price of our barite-based products, we may experience lower margins in our fluids systems and engineering segment. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations that could limit our ability to expand internationally or reduce the revenues and profitability of these operations. We have significant operations in areas of Europe and North Africa surrounding the Mediterranean Sea and in Canada. We also operate in Mexico and Brazil. In addition, we may seek to expand to other areas outside the United States in the future. International operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • difficulties and cost associated with complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • legal uncertainties, timing delays and expenses associated with tariffs, export licenses and other trade barriers; • difficulties enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • tax rates in foreign countries that may exceed those of the United States and foreign earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements, tariffs or other restrictions; • changes in international tax laws; • exchange controls or other limitations on international currency movements; • limitations by the U.S. government to prevent us from engaging in business in certain countries; 6 Table of Contents • difficulties entering new foreign markets if there is a significant movement of E&P operations to areas of the world where we currently do not operate; • inability to preserve certain intellectual property rights in the foreign countries in which we operate; • our inexperience in new international markets; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and • political and economic instability. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Any of these factors could impair our ability to expand into international markets and could prevent us from increasing our revenue and our profitability and meeting our growth objectives. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of significant customers. Our customers are principally major and independent oil and gas E&P companies operating in the markets that we serve. During the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 44% of our consolidated revenues were derived from our 20 largest customers. The loss of a number of these customers could negatively impact our results of operations. We employ borrowed funds as an integral part of our long-term capital structure. In an adverse industry cycle, we may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service requirements to maintain compliance with our covenants. Additionally, our levels of accounts receivable and inventory may not be adequate to provide a sufficient borrowing base. Our ability to meet our debt service requirements and comply with the covenants in our various debt agreements will depend on our future performance. This, in turn, is subject to the volatile nature of the oil and gas industry, and to competitive, economic, financial and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain other financing in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures or refinance all or a portion of our existing debt in order to continue to operate. We may not be able to obtain any additional debt or equity financing if and when needed, and the terms we may be required to offer for this additional debt or equity financing may not be as favorable as the terms we have been able to obtain in the past. The terms of our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”), contain restrictive covenants with which we may not be able to comply. These facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial tests. In addition, these lenders have security interests in substantially all of our U.S. assets and a portion of the capital stock of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. If we were to breach the restrictive covenants or fail to satisfy these financial tests, all amounts owing, including accrued interest, under the Credit Agreement could be declared immediately due and payable. The lenders also could terminate all commitments under the facility and enforce their rights to security interests in substantially all of our U.S. assets. Amounts borrowed under our Credit Agreement are subject to variable interest rates. In January 2008, we entered into two interest rate swap arrangements, which effectively fix the LIBOR interest rate on 100% of the borrowings under our $50.0 million Term Loan, which is part of the Credit Agreement, for the remaining life of the loan. The LIBOR rate is fixed at 3.74% plus a spread based on our corporate leverage ratio. However, any significant increase in interest rates could increase our interest costs on our variable-rate long-term debt or indebtedness incurred in the future. 7 Table of Contents We may not have adequate insurance for potential liabilities. Any significant liability not covered by insurance or exceeding our coverage limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: • we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance policies; • our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; and • the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Shortages of critical equipment and qualified personnel may adversely affect our business. Shortages of critical equipment and qualified personnel necessary to explore for, produce or deliver oil and gas have on occasion limited the amount of drilling activity in our primary markets. Future shortages in these areas could limit the amount of drilling activity and, accordingly, the demand for our services. Such shortages also could limit our ability to expand our services or geographic presence. Also, our future success depends on our ability to employ and retain highly-skilled engineers and technical sales and service personnel. The market for these employees is very competitive, and if we cannot continue to attract and retain quality personnel, our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business will be severely limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction in our skilled labor force, increases in the rates of wages we must pay, or both. We have high levels of goodwill in relation to our total assets and stockholders’ equity as a result of acquisitions. Any future impairment of goodwill could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, we had $62.6 million in goodwill and $18.5 million of identifiable intangible assets, net. Our estimates of the values of these assets could be reduced in the future as a result of various factors beyond our control. Any reduction in the value of these assets would reduce our net income and reduce our total assets and stockholders’ equity in the year in which the reduction is recognized. The combined $81.1 million balance in goodwill and intangible assets represents 12.6% of our total assets and 22.5% of our total stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2007. We must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our business. If we fail to comply or these regulations and policies change, we may face fines or other penalties, be forced to make significant capital expenditures or changes to our operations, or lose demand for our services. Laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past, and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If regulatory requirements were rescinded or relaxed, we may be required to change the way we do business as the demand for our services may decrease. Additionally, as laws and regulations change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures to remain compliant. We believe that the demand for our services in the discontinued environmental services business is directly related to regulation of E&P waste. If these regulations were rescinded or relaxed, or governmental authorities failed to enforce these regulations, we could see a decrease in the demand for our services. This decrease in demand could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also may be affected adversely by new regulations or changes in other applicable regulations. 8 Table of Contents E&P waste that is not contaminated with NORM is currently exempt from the principal federal statute governing the handling of hazardous waste. In recent years, proposals have been made to rescind this exemption. If the exemption covering this type of E&P waste is repealed or modified, we could be required to alter significantly our method of doing business. We also could be required to change the way we do business if the regulations interpreting the rules regarding the treatment or disposal of E&P waste or NORM waste were changed. If we are required to change the way we do business, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our operations do not comply with future laws and regulations, governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits. Under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition in our existing markets and expect to face tough competition in any markets into which we seek to expand. We face competition in the drilling fluids market, where there are several companies larger than us that may have both lower capital costs and greater geographic coverage. Numerous smaller companies also compete against us in the drilling fluids market. The markets for our Mats and Integrated Services business are fragmented and competitive, with nine to ten competitors providing various forms of wooden mat products and services. No competitors provide a product similar to our DuraBasetm composite mat system. Competition in the environmental services market could increase as the industry continues to develop, which could put downward pressure on our margins. We also face competition from efforts by oil and gas producing customers to improve their own methods of disposal. Our ability to expand our business or increase prices also will be affected by future technological change and innovation, which could affect our customers’ decisions to use their own methods of disposal. Our business exposes us to potential environmental or regulatory liability, and we could be required to pay substantial amounts with respect to these liabilities, including costs to clean up and close contaminated sites. Our business exposes us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in: • personal injury or loss of life; • severe damage to or destruction of property including oil and gas producing formations; and • environmental damage and suspension of operations. Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in our facing substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. This could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. These liabilities also could be imposed on the basis of one or more of the following theories: • negligence; • strict liability; • breach of contract with customers; and • our contractual agreements to indemnify our customers in the normal course of our business. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to keep pace with the technological developments that characterize the market for our products and services. The market for our products and services is characterized by technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in product functions and performance. If we are not successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological developments that are accepted in the marketplace or that comply with industry standards, we could lose market share. In addition, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, products or standards that could render some of our products or services obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Our future success and profitability are dependent upon our ability to: • improve our existing product lines; • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; • maintain a reputation for technological excellence; • maintain market acceptance of our products and services; and • anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and respond to technological developments on a timely basis, either internally or through strategic alliances. Our patents or other proprietary technology may not prevent our competitors from developing substantially similar technology, which would reduce any competitive advantages we may have from these patents and proprietary technology. We hold U.S. and foreign patents for certain of our drilling fluids components and mat systems. In our Environmental Services business, which is included in our discontinued operations pending its sale, we also hold U.S. patents on certain aspects of our system to process and dispose of E&P waste, including E&P waste that is contaminated with NORM. However, these patents are not a guarantee that we will have a meaningful advantage over our competitors, and there is a risk that others may develop systems that are substantially equivalent to those covered by our patents. If that were to happen, we would face increased competition from both a service and a pricing standpoint. In addition, costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our patents and proprietary rights. Our business could be negatively impacted by future technological change and innovation. It is possible that future innovation could change the way companies drill for oil and gas, reduce the amount of waste that is generated from drilling activities or create new methods of disposal or new types of drilling fluids. This could reduce the competitive advantages we may derive from our patents and other proprietary technology. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could disrupt our operations. Our significant market areas in the Gulf of Mexico (and related near-shore areas) are susceptible to hurricanes. These weather events can disrupt our operations and result in damage to our properties. In late summer 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Gulf Coast region of the United States and caused extensive and catastrophic physical damage to the area. While we believe we have recovered from the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, future hurricanes could affect our operations in those market areas and result in damage to our facilities and equipment located at such facilities, and the facilities of our customers. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or other adverse weather events. The market price of our common stock is subject to fluctuation. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to a number of factors. These include the general economy, stock market conditions, general trends in the oilfield service industry, announcements made by us or our competitors and variations in our operating results. Investors may not be able to predict the timing or extent of these fluctuations. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 