Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES - 3 - CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION We are including the following discussion to inform our existing and potential security holders generally of some of the risks and uncertainties that can affect our company and to take advantage of the "safe harbor" protection for forward-looking statements that applicable federal securities law affords. From time to time, our management or persons acting on our behalf may make forward-looking statements to inform existing and potential security holders about our company. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. When used in this report, forward-looking statements are generally accompanied by terms or phrases such as "estimate," "project," "predict," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "target," "plan," "intend," "seek," "goal," "will," "should," "may" or other words and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Items contemplating or making assumptions about, actual or potential future sales, market size, collaborations, and trends or operating results also constitute such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors (many of which are beyond our company's control) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the following: general economic or industry conditions, nationally and/or in the communities in which our company conducts business, changes in the interest rate environment, legislation or regulatory requirements, conditions of the securities markets, our ability to raise capital, changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines, financial or political instability, acts of war or terrorism, other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technical factors affecting our company's operations, products, services and prices. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions about future events. While our management considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, results actually achieved may differ materially from expected results in these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. You should consider carefully the statements in sections of this report, which describe factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. We do not undertake, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this report, other than as may be required by applicable law or regulation. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in our reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those expected or projected. - 4 - VICON FIBER OPTICS CORP. ANNUAL REPORT OF FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Vicon Fiber Optics Corp. (“we”, “us”, “our”, the "Company" or the "Registrant") was incorporated in the State of Delaware on April 7, 1969. The Company, until June 2007, derived the majority of its revenue from (1) the manufacture and sale of fiber optic illuminating systems and components for use in conjunction with dental equipment and instruments utilizing fiber optic elements and (2) the sale of decorative lamps utilizing fiber optics for their illumination and color display. Following the cessation of the Company’s regular business activities in June 2007, the Company was reorganized as a vehicle to pursue a business combination and is not conducting any business. The Company is actively seeking an acquisition, merger, reverse merger, or similar business combination with a company with active operations. If such a transaction occurs, the Company would thereafter be engaged in an active business. However, the Company is not currently engaged in meaningful negotiations with any such business. It is also possible that the Company might not be successful in finding a suitable company to acquire or merge with. If, over time, the Company fails to find a suitable company to acquire or merge with, then the Company may consider liquidating and dissolving. If liquidation were to occur, any remaining assets of the Company would be sold, and (after payment of the Company’s remaining liabilities) the cash proceeds, together with all other cash then held by the Company, would be distributed to the Company’s stockholders. The Company would then be dissolved and would cease to exist. The Company selected December 31 as its fiscal year end. Business of the Registrant The Company, based on proposed business activities, is a "blank check" company. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) defines those companies as "any development stage company that is issuing a penny stock, within the meaning of Section 3 (a)(51) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and that has no specific business plan or purpose, or has indicated that its business plan is to merge with an unidentified company or companies." Under SEC Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, the Company also qualifies as a “shell company,” because it has no or nominal assets (other than cash) and no or nominal operations. Many states have enacted statutes, rules and regulations limiting the sale of securities of "blank check" companies in their respective jurisdictions. Management does not intend to undertake any efforts to cause a market to develop in our securities, either debt or equity, until we have successfully concluded a business combination. The Company intends to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for so long as it is subject to those requirements. The Company’s principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond such time will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business rather than immediate, short-term earnings. The Company will not restrict its potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business. The analysis of new business opportunities will be undertaken by or under the supervision of the management of the Registrant. As of this date the Company has not entered into any definitive agreement with any party, nor have there been any specific discussions with any potential business combination candidate regarding business opportunities for the Company. The Registrant has unrestricted flexibility in seeking, analyzing and participating in potential business opportunities. In its efforts to analyze potential acquisition targets, the Registrant will consider the following kinds of factors: (a) Potential for growth, indicated by new technology, anticipated market expansion or new products; (b) Competitive position as compared to other firms of similar size and experience within the industry segment as well as within the industry as a whole; (c) Strength and diversity of management, either in place or scheduled for recruitment; - 5 - (d) Capital requirements and anticipated availability of required funds, to be provided by the Registrant or from operations, through the sale of additional securities, through joint ventures or similar arrangements or from other sources; (e) The cost of participation by the Registrant as compared to the perceived tangible and intangible values and potentials; (f) The extent to which the business opportunity can be advanced; (g) The accessibility of required management expertise, personnel, raw materials, services, professional assistance and other required items; and (h) Other relevant factors. In applying the foregoing criteria, no one of which will be controlling, management will attempt to analyze all factors and circumstances and make a determination based upon reasonable investigative measures and available data. Potentially available business opportunities may occur in many different industries, and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. Due to the Registrant's limited capital available for investigation, the Registrant may not discover or adequately evaluate adverse facts about the opportunity to be acquired. In addition, we will be competing against other entities that possess greater financial, technical and managerial capabilities for identifying and completing business combinations. In evaluating a prospective business combination, we will conduct as extensive a due diligence review of potential targets as possible given the lack of information which may be available regarding private companies, our limited personnel and financial resources and the inexperience of our management with respect to such activities. We expect that our due diligence will encompass, among other things, meetings with the target business’s incumbent management and inspection of its facilities, as necessary, as well as a review of financial and other information which is made available to us. This due diligence review will be conducted either by our management or by unaffiliated third parties we may engage, including but not limited to attorneys, accountants, consultants or such other professionals. At this time, the Company has not specifically identified any third parties that it may engage. The costs associated with hiring third parties to complete a business combination target may be significant and are difficult to determine as such costs may vary depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of time it takes to complete a business combination, the location of the target company and the size and complexity of the target company. Our limited funds and the lack of full-time management will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a target business before we consummate a business combination. Management decisions, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys and the like which, if we had more funds available to us, would be desirable. We will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the promoters, owners, sponsors or other associated with the target business seeking our participation. The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete a business combination cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. The amount of time it takes to complete a business combination, the location of the target company and the size and complexity of the business of the target company are all factors that determine the costs associated with completing a business combination transaction. The time and costs required to complete a business combination transaction can be ascertained once a business combination target has been identified. Any costs incurred with respect to evaluation of a prospective business combination that is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to us. Through information obtained from industry professionals and publications, the Company is aware that there are hundreds of shell companies seeking a business combination target. As a result, the Company’s management believes the Company is in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We are, and will continue to be, an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with, joint ventures with and acquisitions of small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination. - 6 - Form of Acquisition The manner in which the Registrant participates in an opportunity will depend upon the nature of the opportunity, the respective needs and desires of the Registrant and the promoters of the opportunity, and the relative negotiating strength of the Registrant and such promoters. It is likely that the Registrant will acquire its participation in a business opportunity through the issuance of its common stock, par value $.01 per share (the “Common Stock”) or other securities of the Registrant. Although the terms of any such transaction cannot be predicted, it should be noted that in certain circumstances the criteria for determining whether or not an acquisition is a so-called "tax free" reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") depends upon whether the owners of the acquired business own 80% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. If a transaction were structured to take advantage of these provisions rather than other "tax free" provisions provided under the Code, all prior stockholders would in such circumstances retain 20% or less of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. Under other circumstances, depending upon the relative negotiating strength of the parties, prior stockholders may retain substantially less than 20% of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. This could result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those who were stockholders of the Registrant prior to such reorganization. The Company does not intend to supply disclosure to shareholders concerning a target company prior to the consummation of a business combination transaction, unless required by applicable law or regulation. In the event a proposed business combination involves a change in majority of directors of the Company, the Company will file and provide to shareholders a Schedule 14F-1, which shall include, information concerning the target company, as required. The Company will file a current report on Form 8-K, as required, within four business days of a business combination which results in the Company ceasing to be a shell company. This Form 8-K will include complete disclosure of the target company, including audited financial statements. The present stockholders of the Registrant will likely not have control of a majority of the voting securities of the Registrant following a reorganization transaction. As part of such a transaction, all or a majority of the Registrant's directors may resign and one or more new directors may be appointed without any vote by stockholders. In the case of an acquisition, the transaction may be accomplished upon the sole determination of management without any vote or approval by stockholders. In the case of a statutory merger or consolidation directly involving the Company, it will likely be necessary to call a stockholders' meeting and obtain the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding securities. The necessity to obtain such stockholder approval may result in delay and additional expense in the consummation of any proposed transaction and will also give rise to certain appraisal rights to dissenting stockholders. Most likely, management will seek to structure any such transaction so as not to require stockholder approval. The Company intends to search for a target for a business combination by contacting various sources including, but not limited to, our affiliates, lenders, investment banking firms, private equity funds, consultants and attorneys. The approximate number of persons or entities that will be contacted is unknown and dependent on whether any opportunities are presented by the sources that we contact. Our management intends to use its existing business contacts and relationships in order to identify a business combination target for us. It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial cost for accountants, attorneys and others. The costs that will be incurred are difficult to determine at this time as the costs are expected to be tied to the amount of time it takes to identify and complete a business combination transaction as well as the specific factors related to the business combination target hat is chosen, including such factors as the location, size and complexity of the business of the target company. If a decision is made not to participate in a specific business opportunity, the costs theretofore incurred in the related investigation might not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached for the participation in a specific business opportunity, the failure to consummate that transaction may result in the loss to the Registrant of the related costs incurred. The Company has not established a timeline with respect to the identification of a business combination target. We presently have no employees apart from our management. Our officers and directors are engaged in outside business activities and are employed on a full-time basis by other entities. Our management will be dividing its time amongst the Company and the other companies for which they are employed. Our officers and directors anticipate that they will devote very limited time to our business until the acquisition of a successful business opportunity has been identified. The specific amount of time that management will devote to the Company may vary from week to week or even day to day, and therefore the specific amount of time that management will devote to the Company on a weekly basis cannot be ascertained with any level of certainty. In all cases, management intends to spend as much time as is necessary to exercise its fiduciary duties as officers and directors of the Company and believe that they will be able to devote the amount of time required to consummate a business combination transaction as necessary. - 7 - We expect no significant changes in the number of our employees other than such changes, if any, incident to a business combination. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As a “smaller reporting company” as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, the Company is not required to provide this information. 