ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In the course of conducting business, the Company faces a variety of risks that are inherent to the financial services business. The following is a summary of the risks that management believes are the most significant and could affect the Company’s financial condition. 7 Developments in market and economic conditions could adversely affect the Company’s business operations and profitability. Overall market and economic conditions, which are beyond the Company’s control and cannot be predicted with great certainty, generally have a direct impact on client asset valuations and trading activity. In an environment of adverse or uncertain market or economic conditions, the Company could experience decreased trading volumes, decreased fee-based and commission revenue, and decreased profitability. The Company may not be able to successfully compete against the other companies within the financial services industry. The financial services industry has been, and will likely continue to be, intensely competitive. The Company generally competes on the basis of its strong reputation, client-first philosophy and superior service, quality of employees, and range of product and service offerings. The Company competes for business with financial services firms that have greater financial resources and global operations, allowing them to potentially take on more risk and earn higher returns. The Company also competes with companies offering online and discount brokerage services and with banks and bank-affiliated brokerage companies that increasingly are using brokerage services, sometimes at reduced or no cost to customers, to attract clients for bank services. In the event that the Company cannot successfully compete with these financial services firms on one or more of the previously mentioned factors, it may face a reduction in market share, a reduction in revenues, and/or a reduction in profitability. The Company may not be able to attract, develop, and retain highly qualified and productive employees. The Company’s employees are its most important assets, and competition for qualified employees is fiercely competitive, especially for successful financial consultants. If the Company cannot continue to attract and retain high quality employees, or if the costs to attract and retain high quality employees rise due to competition, the Company’s business operations and financial performance could be adversely impacted. The Company’s business may be adversely affected if its reputation is damaged. As a participant in the financial services industry, the Company must maintain a high quality reputation in order to attract and retain clients and employees. If the Company fails, or appears to fail, to conduct its business activities in a fair and ethical manner or to associate with appropriate clients and counterparties, the Company could experience adverse effects to its business operations and financial results. The Company’s business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if it is unable to access funds in a timely or cost-effective manner. Efficient access to funds is critical to the Company’s business operations, particularly margin lending and trading activities. The Company’s funding needs are primarily met through cash generated from operations and cash obtained from external sources (e.g., bank lending and securities lending). The Company’s access to this financing could be impaired by Company-specific factors, such as weakened opinion of the Company by external financing sources, or by factors affecting the financial services industry in general, such as a severe market disruption. An inability to access the necessary funds at a reasonable cost could negatively impact the Company’s business activities and financial condition. External events and failures in technology or in operational processes could expose the Company to business disruptions, reduced financial results, litigation, and regulatory actions. The Company relies on its systems and operational processes to process numerous transactions on a daily basis across various different markets. In addition, the Company relies on third-party vendors to conduct significant portions of its trade processing and back office processing. In the event of a breakdown in an operational process (e.g., human error or employee misconduct), a malfunction of the Company’s systems or the third-party vendors’ systems, or an inability to recover from external events beyond the Company’s control, such as a natural disaster, the Company could suffer business and financial losses and be subject to litigation and regulatory actions. 8 The Company’s financial performance could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates and/or equity prices. The Company is exposed to variability in the value of financial instruments caused by volatility in interest rates and/or equity prices. The primary source of this exposure is in the inventories of fixed-income and equity securities that the Company maintains in order to facilitate customer securities transactions. The Company could experience financial losses if adverse movements in interest rates and/or equity prices cause a decline in the valuations of its securities inventories. The Company’s financial performance could be adversely impacted by credit exposures. The Company is exposed to the possibility that a client or counterparty is unable to meet its obligations to the Company, or that the value of collateral supporting an obligation to the firm declines such that the collateral is no longer sufficient to support the obligation. The Company’s exposure primarily results from its activities relating to margin lending, to its role as a counterparty to financial transactions, and to its securities inventories. The lack of performance by clients and/or counterparties could adversely impact the Company’s profitability. The Company’s reputation and business performance could be adversely impacted if it is unable to sufficiently protect the critical information of its clients. In order to provide effective service to clients, the Company gathers clients’ personal information in the normal course of business. If clients perceive that the Company does not maintain this personal information in a secure manner they may not be willing to do business with the Company. If there is a breach in the Company’s protection of clients’ personal information through a breach in the information technology network or otherwise, the Company could suffer significant damage to its reputation and be subject to litigation and regulatory actions. The Company could suffer adverse impacts to its business activities, financial performance, and reputation if it is subject to one or more significant regulatory actions. As a member of the financial services industry, the Company’s activities are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory bodies, securities exchanges, and other self-regulatory organizations. This regulation has been increasing and becoming more complex in recent years. One or more significant regulatory actions brought against the Company could result in censures, fines, civil or criminal liability, or temporary or permanent prohibition from participating in certain types of business activities, any of which could have material adverse impacts on the Company’s business operations, financial results, and reputation. New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations could also adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company could be negatively impacted as a result of litigation. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subjected to various legal actions. These include claims of recommending unsuitable investments to clients, unauthorized or excessive trading on behalf of clients, or human resource related claims by current or former employees. In the event that the Company is liable for significant settlements or awards, the Company’s business operations, financial performance, and reputation could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 