ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company could be exposed in the course of conducting its business operations to a variety of risks that are inherent to the financial services business. A summary of some of the major risks that could affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is included below and should be considered carefully. The Company’s business operations and profitability might be adversely affected by market and economic conditions. Overall market and economic conditions, which are beyond the Company’s control and cannot be predicted with great certainty, generally have a direct impact on client asset valuations and trading activity. In an environment of adverse or uncertain market or economic conditions, the Company could experience decreased trading volumes, decreased fee-based and commission revenue, and decreased profitability. The Company may not be able to successfully compete against the other companies within the financial services industry. The financial services industry has been, and will likely continue to be, intensely competitive. The Company competes for business with companies having greater financial resources and with companies offering online and discount brokerage services. The Company generally competes on the basis of its strong reputation, quality advice and superior service, quality of employees, and product offerings. In the event that the Company is not able to successfully compete on one or more of these factors, it may face a reduction in market share, a reduction in revenues, and/or a reduction in profitability. The Company may not be able to attract, develop, and retain highly qualified and productive employees. The Company’s employees are its most important assets, and competition for qualified employees is fiercely competitive, especially for financial consultants. If the Company cannot continue to attract and retain quality employees, or if the costs to attract and retain quality employees rise due to the competition, the Company’s business operations and financial performance could be adversely impacted. 7 The Company’s business may be adversely affected if its reputation is damaged. As a participant in the financial services industry, the Company must maintain a high-quality reputation in order to attract and retain customers and employees. If the Company fails, or appears to fail, to properly deal with the various issues (e.g., potential conflicts of interest or customer privacy) that could potentially harm its reputation, the Company could experience adverse effects to its business operations and its financial results. The Company’s business operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if it is unable to access funds in a timely or cost-effective manner. Efficient access to funds is critical to the Company’s business operations, particularly margin lending. The Company’s funding needs are primarily met through cash generated from operations and cash obtained from external sources (e.g., bank lending and securities lending). The Company’s access to this financing could be impaired by Company-specific factors, such as weakened opinion of the Company by external financing sources, or by factors affecting the financial services industry in general, such as a severe market disruption. An inability to access the necessary funds could negatively impact the Company’s business activities and financial condition. Failures in technology or operational processes could expose the Company to business disruptions, reduced financial results, litigation, and regulatory actions. The Company relies on its systems and operational processes to help process numerous transactions on a daily basis across various different markets. In addition, the Company contracts with third-party vendors to conduct significant portions of its trade processing and back office processing. In the event of a breakdown in an operational process (e.g., human error or employee misconduct), a malfunction of the Company’s systems or the third-party vendors’ systems, or external events beyond the Company’s control, such as a natural disaster, that could impact both the operational processes and systems, the Company could suffer business and financial losses and be subject to litigation and regulatory actions. The Company could suffer financial losses if its securities inventories decline in value. The Company maintains inventories of fixed-income and equity securities in order to facilitate customer securities transactions. While holding these securities in inventory, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in value of the security positions. If the valuations of the security positions decline while carried in the Company’s inventory, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company could suffer adverse impacts to its business activities, financial performance, and reputation if it is subject to one or more significant regulatory actions. As a member of the financial services industry, the Company’s activities are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory bodies, securities exchanges, and other self-regulatory organizations. This regulation has been increasing and becoming more complex in recent years. One or more significant regulatory actions brought against the Company could result in censures, fines, civil or criminal liability, or temporary or permanent prohibition from participating in certain types of business activities, any of which could have material adverse impacts on the Company’s business operations, financial results, and reputation. New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations could also adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company could be negatively impacted as a result of litigation. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subjected to various legal actions. These include claims of recommending unsuitable investments to clients, unauthorized or excessive trading on behalf of clients, or human resource related claims by current or former employees. In the event that the Company is liable for significant settlements or awards, the Company’s business operations, financial performance, and reputation could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 8 