Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors merit consideration in evaluating our business. Our businesses’ financial condition, or results of operations, may have material adverse affects from any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known or those we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. We are in the process of examining various strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, but we cannot guarantee that we will pursue one or more alternatives or the alternatives will have the desired effect of enhancing shareholder value. In the fourth quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors retained Needham & Company as its financial advisor to assist it in exploring strategic alternatives, including a possible sale of ourselves. Although an evaluation process is underway, including discussions with various interested parties, we had not set any time frame for conclusion of the process. There cannot be any assurance that a transaction, whether a sale, recapitalization or other event, will take place. Further, any such transaction or business arrangement may not ultimately lead to increased shareholder value. There are uncertainties and risks related to the exploration of strategic alternatives, including: Ø The distraction of management and potential disruption of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results; Ø The inability to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic action undertaken by us; Ø The time dedicated to the process can be lengthy and there are inherent costs associated with such a process; 10 Table of Contents $ in thousands, except per share amounts Ø Potential loss of other business opportunities as management focuses on the exploration of strategic alternatives; and Ø Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, which can result in difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel. In addition, the market price of our stock can be volatile as we explore strategic alternatives, which may continue or become more severe if and when a transaction or business arrangement is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. We have a history of inconsistent operating results and could suffer a reduction in profitability and even losses in the future. Because of operating losses from time to time in prior years, we had an accumulated deficit of $9.5 million at December 31, 2003. While we have regained profitability and have continued to be profitable each year since 2003, during 2007, we experienced sales and margin erosion in our Satellite Electronics segment. We are in a highly competitive business and our profitability is dependent on growth in our markets, the continued introduction and market acceptance of our products and management of our expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our earnings growth, maintain current earnings levels, or remain profitable at all. We anticipate that continued margin pressure may affect 2008 earnings. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we anticipate that they could do so in the future, which could adversely affect our stock price. We may continue to experience significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our operating results, which may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. These fluctuating operating results derive from a variety of factors, including the following: Ø Quarter-to-quarter variability in demand for our products; Ø Introduction of new or enhanced products by us or our competitors; Ø Uneven growth of demand for products and services in developing countries; Ø Timing of significant marketing programs we may implement; Ø Extent and timing of hiring additional personnel; Ø Competitive conditions in our industry; and Ø General economic conditions in the United States and abroad. The factors described above are difficult to forecast and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there have been recent years that have been challenging for the telecommunication and Internet industries. Our sales are somewhat seasonal, with the first quarter generally being the weakest and the fourth quarter generally the strongest. Accordingly, we may have difficulty in accurately forecasting our revenues for any future quarter. We depend on international sales, which could cause our sales levels to be volatile. A significant portion of our business depends on sales to customers outside the United States. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the near future. For example, sales to foreign customers were approximately 35%, 42% and 41% for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in foreign sales reflects the addition of AeroAstro, whose sales tend to be mainly domestic. Nonetheless, we expect that our sales will continue to include a significant proportion of customers located outside the United States. Because of our dependence on foreign markets, the occurrence of any negative international political, economic or geographic events could result in significant revenue shortfalls. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2007, our Satellite Electronics segment experienced order cancellations in Pakistan due, at least in part, to political instability. These shortfalls could negatively influence our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks of doing business internationally include: Ø Changing regulatory requirements; Ø Fluctuations in the exchange rate for the United States dollar; Ø The availability of export licenses; Ø Political and economic instability; Ø Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, tariffs and other trade barriers; Ø Complex foreign laws and treaties; Ø Acts of terrorism; and Ø Difficulty of collecting foreign accounts receivable. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits us from making payments to government officials and others in order to influence the granting of contracts we may be seeking. In addition, we must comply with U.S. customs laws that forbid us to do business with certain countries. Our non-U.S. based competitors are not subject to these laws, which gives them a competitive advantage in those countries. We depend on developing countries for sales, which could cause our sales levels to be volatile. We believe a substantial portion of the growth in demand for our products will depend upon customers in developing countries. We cannot provide assurance that such increases in demand will occur or that prospective customers will accept our products. The degree to which we are able to penetrate potential markets in developing countries will be affected to a large extent by the speed with which other competing elements of the communications infrastructure, such as other satellite-delivered solutions, telephone lines, television cable and land-based solutions, are installed in these developing countries. 11 Table of Contents $ in thousands, except per share amounts A significant portion of our sales are to the U.S. government and government entities and changes in political priorities could reduce our revenue. A significant portion of our consolidated net sales is directly to the U.S. government, or to entities reselling to these civilian agencies and the branches of the military. Demand for our products has been elevated due to the war on terrorism, natural disasters and general upgrades to infrastructures throughout the worlds’ military and police forces. These customers’ needs vary according to the priorities of each respective entity. Furthermore, upcoming national elections in the United States could bring a change in policies and priorities for the U.S. government. A change in control of any of the commercial, political or other related entities could result in reduced demand for our products and ultimately, lower sales and profits. An increasing proportion of our revenues result from competitive and other procurements from the U.S. government that require that we skillfully bid and execute contracts. With the acquisition of AeroAstro and increased direct U.S. government procurement revenues at Xicom, our ability to assure satisfactory and profitable performance of our obligations is dependent on our ability to accurately forecast, bid for and complete U.S. government contracts. These contracts may include cost plus fee arrangements where the fee to which we are entitled varies according to our performance or may include fixed fee arrangements where our profit is contingent on our ability to forecast and manage expenses. Successful completion of these contracts also depends on our ability to develop promised new technologies, recruit and retain appropriate personnel and deliver contract requirements in a timely fashion. Our performance in these regards may affect our ability to win additional or follow on work and could adversely affect revenues and profits. The sales and implementation cycles for our products are long and continue to increase and we may incur substantial, non-recoverable expenses or devote significant resources to sales that may not occur when anticipated, if at all. A customer’s decision to purchase our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. After a customer decides to purchase our products, the timing of its deployment and implementation depends on a variety of factors specific to each customer. Further, prospective customers may delay purchasing our products in order to evaluate new technologies, develop and implement new systems. Throughout the sales cycle, we spend considerable resources educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. While the early market acceptance of our new SkyWire™ shared bandwidth modems has exceeded our expectations, the length of this sales cycle suggests that we cannot assure that this product will enjoy expected market and financial success for 2008 despite the technological and marketing investments that we are making. Our research and development efforts are costly and the results are uncertain, which may reduce our profitability and could result in losses. The telecommunications industry, characterized by rapid change, includes the ground-based satellite communications systems business. Future technological advances in the telecommunications industry may result in the introduction of new products or services that compete with our products or render them obsolete. Our success depends in part on our ability to respond quickly to technological changes through the improvement of our current products and the development of new products. Accordingly, we are actively applying our communications expertise to design and develop new hardware and software products and enhance existing products. These efforts are costly. We expended $11,835, or 8.3% of our net sales, in fiscal 2007 on research and development activities. Additionally, our research and development programs may not produce successful results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued growth through acquisition could prove unsuccessful, strain our personnel and systems and divert our resources. We have pursued and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal development and acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Over the past three-years, our operations have expanded significantly with our acquisitions of AeroAstro and Xicom. We are unable to predict whether or when we will complete any other prospective acquisitions. However, in order to pursue successfully, the opportunities presented by emerging satellite-delivered communications, we will be required to continue to expand our operations. This expansion could entail various risks, including the following: Ø Difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses or products due to unforeseen circumstances; Ø The necessity to attract, train, motivate and manage a significantly larger number of employees; Ø The use of a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention or our resources; Ø Substantial cash expenditures, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets; Ø Potential disruption of our ongoing business; Ø Our inability, once integrated, to achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected; and Ø Our potential inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, 12 Table of Contents $ in thousands, except per share amounts complete acquisitions or expand into new markets. The occurrence of any of the risks described above or any failure to manage further growth in an efficient manner and at a pace consistent with our business could have a material adverse effect on our growth and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ownership change caused by the sale of all of the shares of our common stock held by our majority stockholders may limit the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. We have net operating loss carryforwards that expire between the years 2007 and 2022. Because of the sale in 2004 by Stetsys Pte Ltd. and Stetsys US, Inc. of all of the shares of our common stock held by each company, we experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. With the ownership change, we will be limited in our ability to use the net operating losses from before the date of the ownership change to offset items of taxable income realized after that date. The annual limitation will also result in the expiration of some of the net operating losses before utilization. In addition, any future ownership change could further limit the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset tax liabilities and viewed negatively by a prospective buyer of the stock. Our competitive position relies heavily on our proprietary technology and intellectual property. We rely on our proprietary technology and intellectual property to maintain our competitive position. Unauthorized parties could attempt to copy aspects of our technologies or to obtain information that we regard as proprietary. We may not be able to police unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our competitive position. We generally rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees and some of our suppliers to protect our proprietary technology. We also control access to and distribution of confidential information concerning our proprietary technology. We cannot guarantee that the other parties to these agreements will not disclose or misappropriate the confidential information concerning our proprietary technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on patents to protect certain aspects of our proprietary technology. Patents, however, often provide only narrow protection that may not prevent competitors from developing products that function in a manner similar to those covered by our patents. In addition, some foreign countries in which we sell our products do not provide the same level of protection to intellectual property as the laws of the United States provide. We cannot assure that any patents we currently own or control, or that we may acquire in the future, will prevent our competitors from independently developing products that are substantially similar or superior to ours. We may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation can be very expensive and can distract our management’s time and attention, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation. We depend upon certain suppliers and subcontractors, the loss of which could cause an interruption in the production of our products. We rely on subcontractors to assemble and test some of our products. Additionally, our products use a number of specialized chips and customized components or subassemblies produced by a limited number of suppliers. We maintain limited inventories of these products and do not have long-term supply contracts with our vendors. In the event our subcontractors or suppliers are unable or unwilling to fulfill our requirements, we could experience an interruption in product availability until we are able to secure alternative sources of supplies. We are also subject to price increases by suppliers that could increase the cost of our products or require us to develop alternative suppliers, which could interrupt our business. It may not be possible to obtain alternative sources at a reasonable cost. Supply interruptions could cause us to lose orders or customers, which would result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The inability to attract or retain additional technical personnel could impair our ability to conduct and expand our business. Our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel also is critical to the operation and expansion of our business. The market for skilled engineers and other technical personnel is extremely competitive and recruitment and retention costs are high. Although we have been able to attract and retain the personnel necessary to operate our business, we may not be able to do so in the future, particularly as we continue to expand our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 