ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are dependent on our intellectual property and trade secrets and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets from infringement, misappropriation, or claims of infringement or invalidity. The gaming industry is characterized by the use of various forms of intellectual property to entertain. We are dependent upon patented technologies, trademarked brands and proprietary information for our business. We endeavor to protect our intellectual property rights and our products through a combination of patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. We cannot assure you that any trademark, copyright, issued patent or other types of intellectual property will provide competitive advantages for us. We cannot assure you that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights or products will be successful. Our existing patents may be found invalid or unenforceable and any current or future patent applications may not be approved. We have numerous patents and trademarks and we utilize patent protection in the United States relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. We cannot assure you that all of our existing patents would be found valid or enforceable or will continue to be valid or enforceable, or that any pending patent applications will be approved. Our competitors have in the past challenged, are currently challenging and may in the future challenge the validity or enforceability of certain of our patents. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Competitors may infringe our patents and we may not have adequate resources or there may be other reasons we do not enforce our patents. Our patents may not adequately cover a competitor's products. The future interpretation by courts of United States laws regarding the validity of patents could negatively affect the validity or enforceability of our current or future patents. Our efforts to protect our unpatented proprietary technology may not be successful. We rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements are fully enforceable or will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to establish or maintain our trademarks. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, trade dress, copyrights and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors. We have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. Our trademark applications may not be approved and/or all of the above intellectual property may not remain valid or enforceable. We may not be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or other intellectual property. Third parties may oppose our trademark applications or challenge our use of the trademarks. Our trademarks may become so well known by the public that their use becomes generic and they lose trademark protection. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources towards advertising and marketing new brands. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks or other intellectual property and we may not have adequate resources or there may be other reasons we do not enforce our trademarks or other types of intellectual property. 15 We may not be able to adequately protect our foreign intellectual property rights. Because of the differences in foreign patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property frequently does not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as it would in the United States. Our failure to possess, obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The intellectual property rights of others may limit our ability to make and sell our products. The gaming industry is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies, which requires us to continuously introduce new products using these technologies and innovations, as well as to expand into new markets that may be created. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into markets that may be created by new technologies. However, to the extent technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our financial condition, operating results or prospects may be harmed. We have many competitors in both the United States and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies. Some competitors have applied for and obtained and may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that may prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products. Any royalty, licensing or settlement agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. We have in the past made, are currently making and may in the future make, enforcement claims against third parties and third parties have in the past made, are currently making and may in the future make, claims of infringement, invalidity or enforceability against us or against our licensees or manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. For more information, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” included in this Form 10-K. A successful challenge to or invalidation of one of our patents or trademarks, a successful claim of infringement by a third party against us, our products, or one of our licensees in connection with the use of our technology, or an unsuccessful claim of infringement made by us against a third party or its products could adversely affect our business or cause us financial harm. We are currently in litigation over various intellectual property matters. Any claims -- whether with or without merit -- could: · be expensive and time consuming to defend; · cause one or more of our patents to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid; · cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products; · divert management's attention and resources; · require us to pay significant amounts in damages; · require us to enter into royalty, licensing or settlement agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, process or component; · limit our ability to bring new products to the market in the future; or · cause us by way of injunction to have to remove products on lease and/or stop selling or leasing new products. 16 The gaming industry is highly regulated and we must adhere to various regulations and maintain our licenses to continue our operations. Failure to obtain and/or maintain our licenses could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our operations. We and our products are subject to extensive regulation under federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we do business and our products are used. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability, character and suitability of our officers, directors, major stockholders, key personnel or business partners in gaming operations, including makers of gaming equipment such as ourselves. In many jurisdictions, shareholders owning greater than 5% of our shares must be licensed under applicable gaming regulations unless they qualify for and are able to obtain an exemption or waiver from licensing in those jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions empower their regulators to investigate participation by licensees in gaming outside their jurisdiction and require access to periodic reports concerning gaming activities. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. Licenses, approvals or findings of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits or approvals. We cannot assure you that the licensing process will not result in delays or adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain key personnel, or that complying with these regulations will not increase our costs. For a summary of gaming regulations that affect our business, see “Item 1. Business–Gaming Regulation,” included in this Form 10-K. We may be unable to obtain licenses in new jurisdictions where our customers operate. We will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where our customers operate in the future. To expand into any such jurisdiction, we may need to be licensed, obtain approvals of our products and/or seek licensure of our officers, directors, major shareholders, key personnel or business partners. If we fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of a license in a particular jurisdiction for our products, we would not be able to sell or place on a leased or participation basis our products in that jurisdiction. Legislative and regulatory changes could negatively affect our business and the business of our customers. Legislative and regulatory changes including, but not limited to, changes related to internet gaming, may affect demand for or place limitations on the placement of our products. Such changes could affect us in a variety of ways. Legislation or regulation may introduce limitations on our products or opportunities for the use of our products and could foster competitive games or technologies at our or our customers' expense. For example, current regulations in a number of jurisdictions where our customers operate limit the amount of space allocable to our products and substantial changes in those regulations may adversely affect demand for our products. Our business will also suffer if our products became obsolete due to changes in laws or the regulatory framework. Legislative or regulatory changes negatively impacting the gaming industry as a whole or our customers in particular could also decrease the demand for our products. Opposition to gaming could result in restrictions or even prohibitions of gaming operations in any jurisdiction or could result in increased taxes on gaming revenues. Tax matters, including changes in state, federal or other tax legislation or assessments by tax authorities could have a negative impact on our business. A reduction in growth of the gaming industry or in the number of gaming jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos could reduce demand for our products. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or future judicial intervention in any particular jurisdiction may have a material adverse effect on our existing and proposed foreign and domestic operations. Any such adverse change in the legislative or regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A continued downturn in general worldwide economic conditions or in the gaming industry or a reduction in demand for gaming may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our business operations are affected by international, national and local economic conditions. The current recession and continued downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of our customers, or a reduction in demand for gaming, may harm the health of casino operators and our other customers and consequently result in fewer customers leasing or purchasing our products, which would adversely affect our results. General worldwide economic conditions continue to be unfavorable. These conditions continue to make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and they continue to cause our domestic and foreign customers to slow their spending on both our lease- and sales-based products. We cannot predict the effect or duration of this economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or in the gaming industry. If the domestic and foreign markets for our products significantly deteriorate due to these macroeconomic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. The gaming industry has been notably impacted by the general economic downturn. Due to recent disruptions in the financial markets, gaming operators have been less able to secure financing for development projects and have scaled back such projects considerably. Clients have made significant cuts in expenditures, including layoffs of workers and management employees as well as delayed expansions or new openings. Current economic conditions may cause both our domestic and international clients to decrease their expenditures on gaming equipment and our financial condition, results of operations and stock price may be negatively affected thereby. 17 Our domestic and global growth and ability to access capital markets are subject to a number of economic risks. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia continue to experience disruption, including, among other things, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. It is possible that the disruption in financial markets will continue or even that there will be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. These financial market conditions affect our business in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers to obtain financing for purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of lease and sale orders for our products and services. Current financial market conditions could also affect our ability to raise funds in the capital and bank lending markets. Our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility matures on October 29, 2015. If economic conditions do not improve by such time, we might not be able to refinance such facilities on favorable economic terms, or at all. Risks that impact our customers may impact us. If fewer players visit our customers' facilities, if such players have less disposable income to spend at our customers' facilities or if our customers are unable to devote resources to purchasing and leasing our products, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Such risks that affect our customers include, but are not limited to: · adverse economic and market conditions in gaming markets such as those being currently experienced, including recession, economic slowdown, higher interest rates, higher airfares and higher energy and gasoline prices; · global geopolitical events such as terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility; and · natural disasters such as major fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes. Economic, political, legal and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our operating results. Since we sell or lease our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales to customers outside the United States, primarily Canada, Europe and Australasia accounted for approximately 50.9% of our consolidated revenue from continuing operations for fiscal 2010. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · exchange controls; · changes in regulatory requirements, such as, without limitation, caps on the number of table games in locations such as Macau; · changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions; · tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or application of such tax laws; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · changing labor regulations; · requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; · different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property and the ability for us to repossess our equipment or products in the event of a lease default; · restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; · restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; and · the intellectual property laws in certain foreign countries provide for criminal penalties for actions that would be civil penalties in the United States and such criminal penalties may affect all of our gaming licenses. 18 Our international operations are affected by global economic and political conditions. Changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movement, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. We also have agreements with casinos in Native American jurisdictions, which may subject us to sovereign immunity risks and could subject us to additional compliance costs. Litigation may subject us to significant legal expenses, damages and liability and is inherently unpredictable and risky. We are currently engaged in litigation on a variety of matters, including, in particular, several suits regarding our intellectual property rights and related anti-trust and trade practice issues. For information on our current material litigation and our assessments, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” included in this Form 10-K. Our assessment of each matter may change based on future unknown or unexpected events, or we may simply be wrong. Litigation requires the expenditure of significant time and resources and is inherently unpredictable and risky. We are unable at this time to estimate the likely outcome of pending litigation. An adverse judgment or injunction in any pending or future litigation could have a material impact on our business operations, intellectual property, results of operations or financial position. Our products currently in development may not achieve commercial success and if we are unable to maintain a competitive technological position, we may suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have a number of products in various stages of development. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop, introduce and market new products and improvements to our existing products. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant investments in product development, as needed. Our development of products is dependent on factors such as reaching definitive agreements with third parties, obtaining requisite governmental approvals, having the necessary financial and other resources and the performance and financial and operational viability of various third parties. Future technological advances in the gaming products industry may result in the availability of new products or increase the efficiency of existing products. However, we may not be able to finance capital expenditures for new technologies that are more cost-effective or create superior products. Existing, proposed or as yet undeveloped technologies may render our current technology less profitable or less viable and we may not have available the financial and other resources to compete effectively against companies possessing such technologies. While we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product development opportunities, we cannot assure you that such products will come to fruition or become successful. Furthermore, a number of those products are being tested and we cannot provide any definite date by which they will be commercially available. These products may not prove to be commercially viable and even if they do, we may not be able to obtain the various gaming licenses necessary to distribute them to our customers. Additionally, subsequent to the commercial introduction of such products, we may experience operational problems that could delay or defeat the ability of such products to generate revenue or operating profits. Future operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our success. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products, if any, will meet evolving industry standards and consumer demands. Should we be unable to adapt to such technological changes, offer such products on a timely basis or establish or maintain a competitive position, we may suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We compete in a single industry and our business may suffer if our products become obsolete or demand for them decreases, including without limitation, as a result of the downturn in the gaming industry. We derive substantially all of our revenues from leasing, licensing, selling and other financing arrangements of products for the gaming industry. The gaming industry is currently suffering from a significant downturn, with several casinos announcing layoffs and major reductions in spending. Because of this downturn, our business may materially suffer if our products become obsolete or if use of our products decreases. Additionally, if table games are particularly affected by this market downturn, we may also materially suffer. Our operating lease agreements with our customers are typically month-to-month and provide for termination upon 30 days' prior notice by either party. Accordingly, consistent demand for and satisfaction with our products by our customers is critical to our financial condition and future success and problems, defects or dissatisfaction with our products could cause us to lose customers or revenues from leases with minimal notice. Additionally, our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological advances in our industry and to adapt and improve our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. If demand for our products weakens due to lack of market acceptance, technological change, competition, regulatory changes, or other factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 19 Any disruption in our manufacturing processes, any significant increase in manufacturing costs or any inability to manufacture a sufficient number of our products to meet demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. We manufacture our products at our headquarters and manufacturing facility in Las Vegas, Nevada, as well as our facility in Sydney, Australia. We also outsource the manufacturing of certain of our sub-assemblies in the United States, Europe and Australasia. Should any of these manufacturing processes be disrupted, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to timely remedy such disruption. In such a case, we may be unable to produce a sufficient quantity of our products to meet the demand of our customers. In addition, manufacturing costs may increase significantly and we may not be able to successfully recover these cost increases with increased pricing to our customers. Either case could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The products in each of our segments may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success partly depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our systems. We incorporate security features into the design of our gaming products in order to prevent us or our patrons from being defrauded. To the extent any of our gaming products or software experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products and services with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming products or software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses and disciplinary action, which may lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, in the event of such issues with our gaming products or software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. We operate in a very competitive business environment and if we do not adapt our approach and our products to meet this competitive environment, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. There is intense competition in the gaming products industry, which is characterized by dynamic customer demand and rapid technological advances. We must continually adapt our approach and our products to meet this demand and match these technological advances and if we cannot do so, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely impacted. Conversely, the development of new competitive products or the enhancement of existing competitive products in any market in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Due to the downturn in the economy in general and particularly in the gaming industry, we may not be able to adapt to the market adequately. If we are unable to remain dynamic in the face of changes in the market, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In general, we compete with other gaming and entertainment products for space on the casino customers’ floor, as well as for our customers' capital and operational spending. Our shufflers also compete with hand shuffling. Some of the larger gaming supply companies with whom we compete are IGT, Bally, WMS and Aristocrat. New competitors may also enter our key markets. In the Utility segment, namely shufflers and other gaming equipment, we compete with hand shuffling and other shuffler providers. Additionally, other companies may develop, “reverse engineer,” or market shufflers and seek to develop and obtain regulatory approvals of additional shuffler products. A competitive product may gain substantial placements or cause price erosion of our shufflers in the future. Casinos may choose to shift from automatic to hand shuffling which would cause price erosion of our shufflers. Several companies also manufacture and sell chipper products which are competitive with our Easy Chipper product line. Competition with our i-Shoe card reading shoe is predominantly limited to Angel Co. Ltd.'s Angel Eye card reading shoe and the Bee Electronic Baccarat Dealing Shoe (U.S. Playing Card Company). With respect to our PTG segment, in addition to companies such as IGT, Bally, Aristocrat and WMS that primarily market slot machines, we also compete with both non-proprietary table games such as blackjack and several companies which primarily develop and license proprietary table games. Some of those competitors’ widely known proprietary table game titles include Galaxy Gaming's Lucky Ladies and Emperor's Challenge, Masque Publishing's Spanish 21 and DEQ Systems EZ Baccarat. Additionally, competition with our progressive bet system for table games is predominantly limited to DEQ Systems. Competition in this segment is particularly based on price, brand recognition, player appeal and the strength of underlying intellectual property. Smaller developers and vendors are more able to participate in developing and marketing table games, compared to other gaming products, because of the lower cost and complexity associated with the development of these products and a generally less stringent regulatory environment. In the future, slot manufacturers, as well as table game competitors or others, could market table games that might displace our products. 20 With our continued expansion, we have increased our ETS segment to expand our e-Table platforms. This product line has significant competition, perhaps more than our traditional Utility and PTG segment product offerings. There are numerous other companies that manufacture and/or sell e-Table games, which are similar to our Table Master, Vegas Star and Rapid Table Games. These companies include, but are not limited to, Elektroncek (also known as Interblock), Aruze, PacificNet, Novomatic, IGT and TableMAX. Our e-Tables, as well as those of other companies, also compete for casino floor space with live table games and EGMs. Our EGM segment competes for casino floor space with products of other gaming suppliers. The international slot environment is competitive. The Australasia market reflects other worldwide markets as most of the major international manufacturers have a presence there. The major competitors in these markets are IGT, Bally, Aristocrat, WMS, Konami, Aruze and Ainsworth. In Asia, these competitors are also active along with further competition from myriad European slot manufacturers. Finally, some of our product segments may compete against each other for space on the casino floor. We are dependent on the success of our customers and are subject to industry fluctuations. Our success depends on our customers leasing or buying our products to expand their existing operations, replace existing gaming products or equip a new casino. Any slowdown in the replacement cycle as a result of the current downturn in the gaming industry may negatively impact our operations. Additionally, to the extent existing or potential customers choose to allocate capital to expenditures other than gaming products, such as real estate acquisitions, hotel furnishings, restaurants and other improvements, or generally to reduce expenditures, particularly in response to the current downturn in the gaming industry, we may suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Certain market risks may affect our business, results of operations and prospects. In the normal course of our business, we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements, fluctuating commodities markets, higher labor costs, increased fuel prices, collectability of receivables and recoverability of residual values on leased assets such as those in certain international markets. Further, some of our customers may experience financial difficulties, possibly as a result of the current downturn in the gaming industry, or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, resulting in increased write-offs. Material losses may be incurred in these areas in the future. We are exposed to interest rate and foreign currency risk. The indebtedness under the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility has variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates. As of October 31, 2010, we had approximately $66,000 of variable rate debt. Assuming a 1% change in the average interest rate as of October 31, 2010, our annual interest cost would change by approximately $660. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our lease and sales commitments, anticipated leases and sales, anticipated purchases of inventory in foreign jurisdictions and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We transact business in numerous countries around the world in a variety of foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the value of the Euro, the Australian dollar, the Singapore dollar, the Pataca or the Rand may adversely affect our results of operations, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2010 were the Australian dollar and the Euro. We expect that a significant portion of the volume of our business will continue to be denominated in foreign currency and because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. As such, we expect our cash flows and earnings to continue to be exposed to the risks that may arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We could face considerable business and financial risk in implementing acquisitions. As part of our overall growth strategy, we have in the past acquired and will continue to seek to acquire, complementary products, assets and businesses. We regularly engage in discussions with respect to and investigate possible acquisitions. Future acquisitions could result (and past acquisitions have resulted) in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant expenditures of cash, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization expenses, which could have (and have, in the past, had) a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks associated with acquisitions could have (and have, in the past, had) a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all or that any future acquisition will work out as we expect. Our past acquisitions and any other future potential acquisitions may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate and may not perform as expected for a variety of reasons, including: 21 · in the integration of the operations, financial reporting, technologies, products and personnel, including those caused by national, geographic and cultural differences; · risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · difficulties in the use, development or sale of intellectual property or future or present products; · the potential loss of employees; · currency fluctuations or changes in exchange rates in connection with sales to customers and the purchase of inventory in foreign currencies; · diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; · expenses of any undisclosed or potential legal liabilities; · difficulties in staffing and managing worldwide operations; and · impairments in acquired assets. Any one or a combination of these factors may cause our revenues or earnings to decline. If our products contain defects, our reputation could be harmed and our operating results and financial results could be adversely affected. Some of our products are complex and may contain undetected defects. The occurrence of defects or malfunctions in one or more of our products could result in financial losses for our customers and in turn termination of leases, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources, and could additionally result in lost revenues, civil damages and regulatory penalties, as well as possible rescission of product approvals. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of placements. We may not be able to attract, retain, or motivate the management or employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. The competition for qualified personnel in the gaming industry is intense. Our future success depends on the retention and continued contributions of our key management, finance, marketing, development, technical and staff personnel, many of whom would be difficult or impossible to replace. Our success is also tied to our ability to recruit additional key personnel in the future. We may not be able to retain our current personnel or recruit any additional key personnel required. The loss of services of any of our personnel or our inability to recruit additional necessary key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our continued compliance with our financial covenants in our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control and if we are unable to remain compliant under our financial covenants, our results of operations could be adversely affected by servicing costs. Our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility contains material financial and other covenants, which, if breached, would trigger certain events of default. If our operating results decline, we may need to seek an amendment to our existing facility or refinance the indebtedness outstanding under such facility. Depending on the debt market conditions at the time such an amendment or refinancing is necessary, it is possible that such amendment or refinancing could lead to a significant increase in debt service costs and interest expense, or result in additional restrictions being put on our operations. In such a circumstance, if we are unable to obtain an amendment or refinancing, then we may be forced to file for bankruptcy protection or allow proceedings to take place whereby the lender’s security interests are exercised. The restrictive covenants in our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. The agreement governing the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility imposes and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. Such restrictions will affect and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to take certain actions. The terms of the agreement may make it difficult to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in this Form 10-K for further details. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” included in this Form 10-K for years beyond 2010. 22 Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuation. Historically, our operating results have been lowest in our first fiscal quarter ending January 31, primarily due to the seasonality of customer capital budgets and the December holiday season. Our quarterly operating results may vary based on the timing of the opening of new gaming jurisdictions, the opening or closing of casinos, the expansion or contraction of existing casinos, approval or denial of our products and corporate licenses under gaming regulations, the introduction of new products, the mix of domestic versus international sales and the mix of lease and royalty revenue versus sales and service revenue. As a result, our operating results could be volatile, particularly on a quarterly basis. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 