ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The gaming industry is highly regulated and failure to obtain or maintain our licenses could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to regulation in all jurisdictions in which our customers operate and are also subject to regulation in many jurisdictions in which we conduct our iGaming business. As a result of such regulation, we may need to be licensed, or seek licensure, approval or suitability of our officers, directors, major shareholders, key personnel, customers or vendors. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability, character and suitability of such individuals and entities in gaming operations. For example, we have established due diligence procedures that we undertake on customers and vendors. If any of these individuals or entities are determined to be unsuitable, we may be required to sever our relationship or not enter into the proposed business relationship. If we do not obtain and maintain all such licenses, approvals or findings of suitability, or if we fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of such a license, approval or finding of suitability in a particular jurisdiction, we will not be able to do business in that jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Similarly, our products are subject to extensive regulation under federal, state, local and foreign laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business. For example, failure to meet the required federal, state or foreign testing standards, a breach of any such testing standards or failure to comply with the rules and regulations regarding the distribution of our products could result in disciplinary action or the revocation, suspension or conditioning of our licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. Doing business with any individual or entity considered unsuitable or non-compliance with any of the laws, rules or regulations applicable to our products or our iGaming business in any jurisdiction could result in civil or criminal fines or disciplinary actions or the revocation, suspension or conditioning of our licenses, approvals, findings of suitability, registrations or permits. Regulators have wide ranging powers. A fine, disciplinary action or the loss or suspension of a license or approval in one jurisdiction could have a similar effect in other jurisdictions in which we are licensed. Such event could limit or eliminate our ability to continue our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. 16 Legislative and regulatory changes could negatively affect our business and the business of our customers. New or revised legislation or regulation, including, without limitation, changes to iGaming law, may affect demand for or place limitations on the placement of our products. Such changes could affect us in a variety of ways. For example, current regulations in a number of jurisdictions where our customers operate, such as Macau SAR, limit the amount of space allocated to our products and substantial changes in those regulations may adversely affect demand for our products. Our business may also suffer if our products become obsolete or barriers of entry are created due to changes in laws or the regulatory framework. Legislative or regulatory changes negatively impacting the gaming industry as a whole or our customers in particular could also decrease the demand for our products. Opposition to gaming could result in restrictions or even prohibitions on gaming operations in any jurisdiction. Tax matters, including changes in state, federal or other tax legislation or assessments by tax authorities, could have a negative impact on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our existing or proposed business, our results of operation or financial condition. Compliance with the covenants in our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility is subject to many factors, some that are beyond our control and others that may limit our ability to engage in business activities. Our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility contains material financial and other covenants, which, if breached, could trigger certain events of default. If our operating results decline, we may need to seek an amendment to our facility or refinance the indebtedness outstanding under such facility. Depending on the debt market conditions at the time, it is possible that such amendment or refinancing could lead to a significant increase in debt service costs and interest expense or result in additional restrictions being put on our operations. In such circumstances, if we are unable to obtain an amendment or refinancing, we could be forced to allow proceedings to take place whereby the lender’s security interests are exercised, or we could be forced to file for bankruptcy protection. The Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility imposes, and the terms of any future indebtedness could impose, operating and other restrictions on us. Such restrictions could affect and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to take certain actions, including obtaining financing for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Should we need to raise capital beyond or separate from our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility, current financial market conditions could affect our ability to raise funds in the capital and bank lending markets. The indebtedness under the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility has variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates. Our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility matures on October 29, 2015. Depending on economic conditions at such time, we might not be able to refinance such facilities on favorable economic terms, or at all. We could face considerable business and financial risks in investigating and implementing acquisitions. As part of our overall growth strategy, we may seek to acquire assets or businesses. We regularly discuss and investigate possible acquisitions. We may incur significant expenses with our due diligence efforts in connection with potential acquisitions. Additionally, these due diligence efforts divert management’s attention in the negotiation and investigation of such acquisitions. We may not be successful in consummating acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Such acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant expenditures of cash, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or an increase in amortization expenses. An acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies we anticipate for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation: · the integration of the operations, financial reporting, internal controls, technologies, products and personnel, including issues raised by national, geographic and cultural differences; · potential impairments in acquired assets; · entry into markets or acquisition of products or technologies with which we have limited or no prior experience; 17 · expenses associated with any potential or unknown legal liabilities; · management of worldwide operations and diversion of management's attention away from our existing business; and · the exploitation of acquired intellectual property or the development, sale or lease of acquired products or unanticipated increases in manufacturing expenses. The risks associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our revenues are dependent on our intellectual property rights. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from products, technologies and services that incorporate our intellectual property. We have numerous patents, trademarks and copyrights. We cannot assure you that all of our intellectual property would be found, or will continue to be, valid or enforceable, or that any pending intellectual property applications will be approved. The intellectual property we own or have rights to could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Competitors may infringe our intellectual property and, due to inadequate resources or other reasons, we may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights. The interpretation of intellectual property laws regarding the validity of intellectual property by courts and governmental authorities could negatively affect the validity or enforceability of our current or future intellectual property. This could have multiple negative impacts upon, the marketability of, or anticipated revenue from, certain of our products. Additionally, because of the differences in intellectual property laws, our intellectual property may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as it would in the United States. Our failure to possess, obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. To the extent technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others limit us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, we may be forced to enter into licensing arrangements in order to utilize such technology, be delayed in introducing such technology into the market or incur unexpected research and development expenses to develop alternative technologies. We have many competitors in both the United States and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies. Some competitors have applied for and obtained, and may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that may prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products or technologies. Required royalty, licensing or settlement agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements are fully enforceable or that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of an unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Litigation regarding our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, intellectual property, results of operation or financial condition. A significant portion of our success depends on the protection of our intellectual property. We are making and in the future may make claims of infringement, invalidity or enforceability against third parties. For example, with the emergence of iGaming, we have increased avenues to seek enforcement against parties that infringe our intellectual property. This enforcement could: · cause us to incur greater costs and expenses in the protection of our intellectual property; · otherwise potentially negatively impact our intellectual property rights; · cause one or more of our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property interests to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid; and 18 · divert management's attention and our resources. In addition, third parties may allege claims of infringement, invalidity or enforceability against us or against our licensees or manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. A successful challenge to or invalidation of one of our patents, copyrights or trademarks, a successful claim of infringement by a third party against us, our products, or one of our licensees in connection with the use of our technology, or an unsuccessful claim of infringement made by us against a third party or its products could adversely affect our business or cause us financial harm. Any claim could: · be expensive and time consuming to defend or require us to pay significant amounts in damages; · cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign, reengineer, rebrand our products or limit our ability to bring new products to the market in the future; · require us to enter into royalty, licensing or settlement agreements in order to obtain the right to use a product, process or component; · impact the commercial viability of the products that are the subject of the claim during the pendency of such claim; or · require us by way of injunction to have to remove products on lease or stop selling or leasing new products. We are, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings which could materially adversely affect us. We are currently engaged in litigation on a variety of matters that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and additional claims or disputes may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings are subject to significant uncertainty and, regardless of the merit of the claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into agreements to settle litigation or other claims or disputes. Although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management’s expectations, our results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, payment of attorneys’ fees and costs, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against us, all of which could have a material impact on our business, intellectual property, results of operation or cause us financial harm. Our products currently in development may not achieve commercial success and if we are unable to maintain a competitive technological position, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. There is intense competition in the gaming products industry. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological advances in our industry and to adapt and improve our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant investments in product development. While we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product development and technology opportunities, we cannot assure you that such products or technologies will come to fruition or become successful or that we will realize a return on such investments. Our development of products is dependent on multiple factors. There is competition in our industry for talented employees, which means that our product development may be impacted by our not having the necessary qualified employees. We may not have sufficient research and development resources, including the necessary financial resources. A number of products are being tested and we cannot provide any definite date by which they will be commercially available or at all. These products may not prove to be commercially viable and even if they do, we may not be able to obtain the various gaming licenses necessary to distribute them to our customers. Additionally, subsequent to the commercial introduction of such products, we may experience operational or technical problems that could delay or defeat the ability of such products to generate revenue or operating profits. Future technologies developed by our competitors may render our current products less desirable, profitable or viable. We may not have available the financial and other resources to compete effectively against such competitors, which may, among other things, render our products obsolete or reduce their commercial value. Future operational or technical problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our success. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products, if any, will meet evolving industry standards and consumer demands. Should we be unable to adapt to such technological changes, offer such products on a timely basis or establish or maintain a competitive position, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. 19 The products in each of our segments may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success partially depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our products or technology. We incorporate security features into the design of our products and technology in order to prevent us or our customers from being defrauded. To the extent any of our products or software experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our products or software may give rise to claims by our customers or by our customers’ patrons, including claims by our customers for lost revenues and related litigation. Software bugs or malfunctions, errors in distribution or installation of our software, failure of our products to perform as approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies, or other errors or malfunctions, may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including fines, the requirement to remove such products or software from commercial use, suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses and disciplinary action. Further, in the event of such issues, substantial engineering and marketing resources and expenditures may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. All of the foregoing could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Any disruption in our manufacturing processes, any significant increase in manufacturing costs or any inability to manufacture a sufficient number of our products to meet demand could adversely affect us. We manufacture our products in Las Vegas, Nevada, as well as in our facility in Milperra, Australia. We also outsource the manufacturing of certain of our sub-assemblies in the United States, Europe and Asia. Should any of these manufacturing processes be disrupted, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to timely remedy such disruption and accordingly may not be able to timely meet our business obligations or otherwise meet customer demand, all of which could negatively affect our revenues. To the extent we rely on a single source for any of our components used in our manufacturing process, any disruption to such source may result in a disruption to our manufacturing process and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to timely remedy such disruption. In either of such cases, we may be unable to produce a sufficient quantity of our products to meet the demand of our customers for our products or technology. The impact of all of the foregoing is magnified and will continue to increase as we streamline our supply chain management by narrowing the number of our suppliers. Further, manufacturing costs may unexpectedly increase and we may not be able to successfully recover any or some of such cost increases by increased pricing to our customers. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Our strategy is focused on a lease based model and our business may suffer if demand for our products decreases. Our strategy is to shift our customers from a sales based model to a lease based model for our Utility, PTG and ETS segments. While this strategy is not possible in all jurisdictions, in fiscal 2012, 42.3% of our revenues were derived from leases in these segments. Such lease agreements with our customers are typically month-to-month and provide for termination upon 30 days' prior notice by either party. Accordingly, consistent demand for and satisfaction with our products by our customers is critical to our financial condition and future success. Problems, defects or dissatisfaction with our products could cause us to lose customers or revenues from leases with minimal notice, which may cause us to suffer a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. iGaming is a new and evolving industry, which presents significant uncertainty and business risks. iGaming, including social gaming, is a relatively new industry that continues to evolve. The growth of the iGaming industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. As we grow our iGaming business, our success will require significant investments in developing the business including costs and expenses related to hardware and infrastructure technology, legal compliance such as privacy and regulatory laws, personnel and entry into jurisdictions in which we have not previously operated. The iGaming industry is highly competitive. Our success depends on our ability to develop products that have player appeal and keep pace with technological advances in the industry. As a result, iGaming revenues are speculative. As with any new product line, revenues are unpredictable and we cannot provide assurance that our iGaming offerings will provide a return on our investment or at all, or be successful in the long term. 20 Economic conditions that have an adverse effect on the gaming industry will adversely affect our results of operation. Our business operations are concentrated in a single industry that is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. A downturn in the economy or in a region constituting a significant source of our customers, or a reduction in demand for gaming, may harm our financial condition or that of our customers. We cannot predict the effect or duration of an economic slowdown or the timing or strength of any subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or in the gaming industry, or the impact such slowdown may have on the demand for gaming. If players have less disposable income to spend on gaming or if our customers are unable to devote resources to purchasing, leasing or licensing our products, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Such events include, without limitation: · adverse economic and market conditions, including fluctuating interest rates, higher airfares, energy and gasoline prices; · political events such as terrorist attacks, acts of war, political instability and international economic crisis; and · natural disasters such as major fires, floods, hurricanes and epidemics. Such events may make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and may cause our customers to slow their spending on our products. Our success depends on our customers leasing, buying or licensing our products for their existing operations, replacing their existing gaming products or equipping their new casinos or online operations. Any slowdown in the replacement cycle as a result of a downturn in the gaming industry may negatively impact our operations. If the domestic and foreign markets for our products significantly deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Economic, political, legal and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our operating results. Our sales to customers outside the United States, primarily Canada, Europe, Australia and Asia accounted for approximately 56% of our consolidated revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2012. Accordingly, our business results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with our doing business internationally, including, without limitation: · tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · changes in tax laws or application of such tax laws; · labor regulations, staffing and management of widespread operations; · requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances, intercompany payments and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; · collectability of receivables and recoverability of residual values on leased assets resulting in increased write-offs; · our ability to repossess our equipment or products in the event of a lease default; and · restrictions on our ability to operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in foreign jurisdictions. We also have agreements with casinos in Native American jurisdictions, which may subject us to sovereign immunity risks and could subject us to additional compliance costs. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. We transact business in numerous countries around the world and expect that a significant portion of our business will continue in international markets. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our leases and sales, purchases of inventory, and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consolidated revenues from customers outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies was approximately $144 million in fiscal 2012 which is approximately 56% of consolidated revenues. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate revenues and earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues and earnings. As such, we expect our revenues and earnings to continue to be exposed to the risks that may arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. 21 Our ability to compete depends in part on the continued availability and service of qualified employees. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of qualified employees. Experienced employees in the gaming and technology industry are in high demand. The loss of employees or the inability to hire additional talented employees as necessary could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement employees could be time-consuming and expensive and cause additional disruptions to our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 