Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations, and the market value of our securities could decline. The risks discussed below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks exist that we do not currently believe to be material, and there may also be other risks that are not currently known to us, that may also harm our business and adversely affect our future financial performance and the market value of our stock. Risks Factors Relating to the Interactive Entertainment Software Industry and Our Business We depend on a relatively small number of brands for a significant portion of our revenues and profits. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from products based on a relatively small number of popular brands each year, and these products are responsible for a disproportionate amount of our profits. In addition, many of these products have substantial production or acquisition costs and marketing budgets. In fiscal 2007, 39% of our consolidated net revenues (and 52% of our worldwide publishing net revenues) was derived from three brands, which 10 accounted for 17%, 13%, and 9% of consolidated net revenues, respectively (and 23%, 18%, and 11% of worldwide publishing net revenues, respectively). In fiscal 2006, 30% of our consolidated net revenues (and 38% of our worldwide publishing net revenues) was derived from three brands, which accounted for 14%, 8%, and 8% of consolidated net revenues, respectively (and 18%, 10%, and 10% of our worldwide publishing net revenues, respectively ). In fiscal 2005, 37% of our consolidated net revenues (and 48% of our worldwide publishing net revenues) was derived from three brands, which accounted for 16%, 11%, and 10% of consolidated net revenues, respectively (and 21%, 14%, and 13% of our worldwide publishing net revenues, respectively). We expect that a limited number of popular brands will continue to produce a disproportionately large amount of our revenues and profits. Due to this dependence on a limited number of brands, the failure to achieve anticipated results by one or more products based on these brands may significantly harm our business and financial results. Our future success depends on our ability to release popular products. The life of any one game product is relatively short and generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. Because revenues associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total revenues associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. It is therefore important for us to be able to continue to develop many high quality new products that are popularly received. We focus our development and publishing activities principally on products that are, or have the potential to become, franchise brand properties. If we are unable to do this, our business and financial results may be negatively affected. Our business is “hit” driven. If we do not deliver “hit” titles, or if consumers prefer competing products, our sales could suffer. While many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit” titles account for a significant portion of net revenue. Competitors may develop titles that imitate or compete with our “hit” titles, and take sales away from us or reduce our ability to command premium prices for those titles. Hit products published by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause our product sales to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or offer competitive products at lower price, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well received products, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to intellectual property, we may publish fewer “hit” titles and our revenue may decline. Many of our products are based on intellectual property and other character or story rights acquired or licensed from third parties. These license and distribution agreements are limited in scope and time, and we may not be able to renew key licenses when they expire or to include new products in existing licenses. The loss of a significant number of our intellectual property licenses or of our relationships with licensors, or inability to obtain additional licenses of significant commercial value could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and therefore on our business and financial results. Additionally, the failure of intellectual property acquired by us to be popularly received could impact the market acceptance of our products in which the intellectual property is included. Such lack of market acceptance could result in the write-off of the unrecovered portion of acquired intellectual property assets, which could cause material harm to our business and financial results. Furthermore, the competition for these licenses and distribution agreements is often intense. Competition for these licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees, and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could increase our costs. Our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony’s PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3, Microsoft’s Xbox 360 and Nintendo’s Wii and DS. The success of our business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of these video game platforms, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which we 11 are developing products may be delayed, may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. Alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss out on a meaningful revenue opportunity. If the platforms for which we are developing products are not released when anticipated, are not available in adequate quantities to meet consumer demand, or do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our products, and our financial performance will be harmed. Transitions in console platforms could have a material impact on the market for interactive entertainment software. In fiscal 2006, Microsoft released Xbox and in fiscal 2007, Sony and Nintendo introduced their respective next-generation hardware platforms, the PlayStation 3 and Wii. When new console platforms are announced or introduced into the market, consumers typically reduce their purchases of game console entertainment software products for current console platforms in anticipation of new platforms becoming available. During these periods, sales of our game console entertainment software products may be expected to slow or even decline until new platforms are introduced and achieve wide consumer acceptance. This decline may not be offset by increased sales of products for the new console platforms. As console hardware moves through its life cycle, hardware manufacturers typically enact price reductions and decreasing prices may put downward pressure on our software prices. During platform transitions, we may simultaneously incur costs both in continuing to develop and market new titles for prior-generation video game platforms, which may not sell at premium prices, and also in developing products for next-generation platforms, which will not generate immediate or near-term revenue. As a result, our operating results during platform transitions may be more volatile and more difficult to predict than during other times, which may cause greater fluctuations in our stock price. We must make significant expenditures to develop products for new platforms which may not be successful or released when anticipated. We must make substantial product development and other investments in a particular platform well in advance of introduction of the platform and we may be required to realign our product portfolio and development efforts in response to market changes. Furthermore, development costs for new console platforms are greater than such costs for current console platforms. If increased costs are not offset by higher revenues and other cost efficiencies, our operating results will suffer and our financial position will be harmed. If the platforms for which we develop new software products or modify existing products are not released on a timely basis or do not attain significant market penetration, or if we develop products for a delayed or unsuccessful platform or cancel development of products in response to market changes, we may not be able to recover in revenues our development costs, which could be significant, and our business and financial results could be significantly harmed. In addition, we seek to release many of our products in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie. If we miss these key selling periods due to product delays or delayed introduction of a new platform for which we have developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately. If the average price of prior-generation titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on next-generation titles, our operating results will suffer. We have experienced a decrease in the average price of our titles for prior-generation platforms. As the interactive entertainment industry transitions to next-generation video game platforms, we expect there to be fewer prior-generation titles able to command premium prices, and we expect that even these titles will be subject to price reductions at an earlier point in their sales cycle than we have seen in prior years. We expect the average price of prior-generation titles to continue to decline, which may have a negative effect on our margins and operating results. Our next-generation titles for the Xbox360, Sony’s PlayStation 3 and the Nintendo Wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. We expect to continue to price next-generation titles at a premium level, but if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these next-generation titles we may experience a negative effect on our margins and operating results. 12 Our industry is highly competitive and our competition may succeed in narrowing our market share and reducing our sales. We compete primarily with other publishers of personal computer and video game console interactive entertainment software and peripherals. Our competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. In addition, integrated video game console hardware and software companies such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft compete directly with us in the development of software titles for their respective platforms. Certain of these competitors can spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports, music and character properties, and pay more to third-party software developers than we can. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, we believe that the overall growth in the use of the Internet and online services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using interactive entertainment software and more using the Internet and online services. A number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the Internet. Future increased consumer acceptance and increases in the availability of online games or technological advances in online game software or the Internet could result in a decline in platform-based software and negatively impact sales of our products. Direct sales of software over the Internet by competitors could materially adversely affect our distribution business. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge. Our platform licensors are our chief competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of and have broad approval rights over our video game products. Generally, when we develop interactive entertainment software products for hardware platforms offered by Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft, the products are manufactured exclusively by that hardware manufacturer or their approved replicator. Our agreements with these manufacturers include certain provisions, such as approval rights over all software products and related hardware peripherals and promotional materials and the ability to change the fee they charge for the manufacturing of products, which allow them substantial influence over our costs and the release schedule of our products. In addition, since each of the manufacturers is also a publisher of games for its own hardware platforms and manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of our competitors in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Accordingly, Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft could cause unanticipated delays in the release of our products as well as increases to our development, manufacturing, marketing, or distribution costs, which could materially harm our business and financial results. In addition, our platform licensors control our ability to provide online game capabilities for our console platform products and in large part establish the financial terms on which these services are offered to consumers. Currently, Microsoft provides online capabilities for the Xbox360 and Sony provides online capabilities for PS2 and PS3 products. In each case, compatibility code and/or the consent of the licensor are required for us to include online capabilities in our products. As these capabilities become more significant, the failure or refusal of our licensors to approve our products may harm our business. Our platform licensors set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. We pay a licensing fee to the hardware manufacturer for each copy of a product manufactured for that manufacturer’s game platform. In order to publish products for new hardware platforms, we must take a license from the platform licensor which gives the platform licensor the opportunity to set the fee structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly, the platform licensors have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures for online gameplay and features for their consoles and the manufacturing of products. The control that platform licensors have over the fee structures for their platforms and online access makes it difficult for us to predict our costs and profitability in the medium to long term. It is also possible that platform licensors will not renew our licenses. Because publishing products for console systems is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee structures or nonrenewal of licenses would have a significant negative impact on our business model and profitability. 13 We rely on independent third parties to develop some of our software products. We rely on independent third-party interactive entertainment software developers to develop some of our software products. Since we depend on these developers, in the aggregate, we remain subject to the following risks: • Continuing strong demand for developers’ resources, combined with the recognition they receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked for us in the past either to work for our competitors in the future or to renegotiate our agreements with them on terms less favorable for us; • Limited financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing our products or require us to fund additional costs; and • Our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers’ services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete for us. Increased competition for skilled third-party software developers also has compelled us to agree to make significant advance payments on royalties to game developers. If the products subject to these arrangements do not generate sufficient revenues to recover these royalty advances, we would have to write-off unrecovered portions of these payments, which could cause material harm to our business and financial results. Typically, we pay developers a royalty based on a percentage of net revenues, less agreed upon deductions, but from time to time, we have agreed to pay developers fixed per unit product royalties after royalty advances are fully recouped. To the extent that sales prices of products on which we have agreed to pay a fixed per unit royalty are marked down, our profitability could be adversely affected. If our products contain defects, our business could be harmed significantly. Software products and peripherals as complex as the ones we publish may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite extensive testing prior to release, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment, that could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance. This loss or delay could significantly harm our business, financial results, and reputation. We may permit our customers to return our products and to receive pricing concessions which could reduce our net revenues and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price protection with respect to our distributors and retailers. Return policies allow distributors and retailers to return defective, shelf-worn, and damaged products in accordance with terms granted. Price protection, when granted and applicable, allows customers a credit against amounts they owe us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, our customers under certain conditions. The conditions our customers must meet to be granted the right to return products or price protection are, among other things, compliance with applicable payment terms, delivery to us of weekly inventory and sell-through reports, and consistent participation in the launches of our premium title releases. We may also consider other factors, including the facilitation of slow-moving inventory and other market factors. When we offer price protection, we offer it with respect to a particular product to all of our retail customers; however, only those customers who meet the conditions detailed above can avail themselves of such price protection. We also offer a 90-day limited warranty to our end users that our products will be free from manufacturing defects. Although we maintain a reserve for returns and price protection, and although we may place limits on product returns and price protection, we could be forced to accept substantial product returns and provide substantial price protection to maintain our relationships with retailers and our access to distribution channels. Product returns and price protection that exceed our reserves could significantly harm our business and financial results. Sales of certain titles such as Guitar HeroTM are affected by hardware peripheral availability. Some of our titles involve a separate hardware peripheral, such as the guitar in Guitar HeroTM . Typically, we sell such software both in bundles with the hardware peripheral and on a stand-alone basis. Consumer may not want to buy such game software if they cannot also buy the hardware peripheral. If we underestimate demand or otherwise are unable to produce sufficient quantities of the hardware peripheral or allocate too few peripherals to geographic markets and hardware platforms where demand exceeds supply, we will forego revenue. This may also create greater opportunities for competitors to develop or gain market share with competitive product offerings. If we overestimate demand and make too many peripherals, or allocate too many peripherals to geographic markets and 14 hardware platforms where there is insufficient demand, we will incur unrecoverable manufacturing costs for unsold units as well as for unsold game software. In either case, hardware peripheral manufacturing and allocation decisions may negatively affect our financial performance. There are a limited number of manufacturers who are authorized by Sony, Nintendo or Microsoft to make the hardware peripherals for Guitar HeroTM, and the majority of those manufacturers are located in China. Anything that adversely impacts the ability of those manufacturers to produce the hardware peripheral for us, including without limitation the revocation of the first party license to produce the hardware, the utilization of such manufacturer’s capacity by one or our competitors, or issues generally negatively impacting international companies operating in China, will adversely impact our ability to supply those peripherals to the market. We may face difficulty obtaining access to retail shelf space necessary to market and sell our products effectively. Retailers of our products typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition among consumer interactive entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. To the extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new products will consistently achieve such “best seller” status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees, and product return policies. Our products constitute a relatively small percentage of any retailer’s sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide our products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm our business and financial results. Our sales may decline substantially without warning and in a brief period of time because a majority of our sales are made to a relatively small number of key customers and because we do not have long-term contracts for the sale of our products. In the United States and Canada, we primarily sell our products on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses, and game specialty stores. Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and licensing arrangements and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. Our sales are made primarily on a purchase order basis without long-term agreements or other forms of commitments. Our largest customers, Wal-Mart and GameStop, accounted for approximately 22% and 8%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 and approximately 22% and 10% of our consolidated net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. The loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any of our principal retail customers or distributors could significantly harm our business and financial results. The concentration of sales in a small number of large customers also could make us more vulnerable to collection risk if one or more of these large customers became unable to pay for our products. In addition, having such a large portion of our total net revenue concentrated in a few customers reduces our negotiating leverage with these customers. We may be burdened with payment defaults and uncollectible accounts if our distributors or retailers cannot honor their credit arrangement with us. Distributors and retailers in the interactive entertainment software industry have from time to time experienced significant fluctuations in their businesses and a number of them have failed. The insolvency or business failure of any significant retailer or distributor of our products could materially harm our business and financial results. We typically make sales to most of our retailers and some distributors on unsecured credit, with terms that vary depending upon the customer’s credit history, solvency, credit limits, and sales history, as well as whether we can obtain sufficient credit insurance. Although, as in the case with most of our customers, we have insolvency risk insurance to protect against our customers’ bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation, this insurance contains a significant deductible and a co-payment obligation, and the policy does not cover all instances of non-payment. In addition, although we maintain a reserve for uncollectible receivables, the reserve may not be sufficient in every circumstance. As a result, a payment default by a significant customer could significantly harm our business and financial results. 15 We may not be able to maintain our distribution relationships with key vendors and customers. Our CD Contact, NBG, and Centresoft subsidiaries distribute interactive entertainment software and hardware products and provide related services in the Benelux countries, Germany, and the United Kingdom, respectively, and via export in other European countries for a variety of entertainment software publishers, many of which are our competitors, and hardware manufacturers. From time to time, they also maintain exclusive relationships to serve certain retail customers. These services are generally performed subject to limited-term arrangements. Although we expect to use reasonable efforts to retain these vendors and retail customer relationships, we may not be successful in this regard. The cancellation or non-renewal of one or more of these arrangements could significantly harm our business and financial results. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, including: the popularity, price and timing of our games and the platforms on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. Many of these risks are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our business and financial results. We are exposed to seasonality in the sale of our products. The interactive entertainment software industry is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand occurring during the calendar year end holiday buying season. As a result, our net revenues, gross profits, and operating income have historically been highest during the second half of the calendar year. Our receivables and credit risk are likewise higher during the second half of the calendar year as our customers stock up on our products for the holiday season. Additionally, in a platform transition period, sales of game console software products can be significantly affected by the timeliness of introduction of game console platforms by the manufacturers of those platforms, such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. The timing of hardware platform introduction is also often tied to holidays and is not within our control. If a hardware platform is released unexpectedly close to the holidays, this would result in a shortened holiday buying season and could negatively impact the sales of our products. Further, delays in development, licensor approvals, or manufacturing can also affect the timing of the release of our products, causing us to miss key selling periods such as the calendar year end holiday buying season. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in revenues, we may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenues and profit. If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, and retain skilled personnel. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with technical, marketing, sales, product development, and management skills. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. If we are unable to attract additional qualified employees or retain the services of key personnel, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our products are subject to the threat of piracy and unauthorized copying, and inadequate intellectual property laws and other protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary technology. We regard our software as proprietary and rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We own or license various copyrights, patents, and trademarks. We are aware that some unauthorized copying occurs within the interactive entertainment software industry, and if a significantly greater amount of unauthorized copying of our software products were to occur, it could cause material harm to our business and financial results. 16 Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in some countries. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries. In addition, though we take steps to make the unauthorized copying and distribution of our products more difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which our games are played, neither our efforts nor those of the console manufacturers may be successful in controlling the piracy of our products. Organized pirate operations have been expanding globally. In addition, the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent the protection measures we use in our products, the availability of broadband access to the Internet, the ability to download pirated copies of our games from various Internet sites and peer-to-peer networks, and the widespread proliferation of Internet cafes using pirated copies of our products, all have contributed to an expansion in piracy. This could have a negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future. Moreover, as we leverage our software products using emerging technologies such as the Internet and online services, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and to avoid infringing intellectual property rights of others may diminish. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products in connection with these emerging technologies. Data breaches involving the source code for our products or customer or employee data stored by us could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. We store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created on multiple electronic devices. In addition, we store customer account information for, and other confidential information related to, our employees. A breach of the systems on which such source code, account information and other sensitive data is stored could lead to piracy of our software or fraudulent activity and claims and lawsuits against us in connection with data security breaches. If we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or be forced to pay damages or other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, any damage to our reputation resulting from a data breach could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and future growth prospects, or increase our costs by leading to additional security measures being required. We may be subject to intellectual property claims. As the number of interactive entertainment software products increases and the features and content of these products continue to overlap, software developers increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Many of our products are highly realistic and feature materials that are based on real world examples, which may be the subject of intellectual property infringement claims of others. In addition, our products often utilize complex, cutting edge technology that may become subject to emerging intellectual property rights of others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. • Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • Cease selling, incorporating, or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • Obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or • Redesign the affected interactive entertainment software products or hardware peripherals, which could cause us to incur additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of our products. Any of these actions may cause material harm to our business and financial results. We are subject to the rating of our content by the Entertainment Software Rating Board and similar agencies. Failure to obtain our target ratings for our products could negatively impact our sales. The Entertainment Software Rating Board (the “ESRB”) requires game publishers to provide consumers with ratings information, including information relating to violence, nudity, or sexual content contained in software titles, 17 and imposes significant penalties for noncompliance. Certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements of rating systems, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products, or we may be prevented from selling them altogether in certain territories. Our software titles receive a rating from the ESRB of “Everyone” (age 6 and older), “Everyone 10+” (age 10 and older), “Teen” (age 13 and over), or “Mature” (age 17 and over). Many of our titles have received an “Mature” rating. None of our titles have received the “Adults Only” rating (18 and over). We believe that we comply with rating systems and properly display the ratings and content descriptions received for our titles. If we are unable to obtain the ratings we have targeted for our products as a result of changes in the ESRB’s ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. Our business, products, and distribution are subject to increasing regulation of content in key territories. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer. Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products and their distribution. For example, privacy laws in the United States and Europe impose various restrictions on our collection and storage of personal information. Those rules vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no geographical boundaries. In addition, many foreign countries have laws that permit governmental entities to censor the content and/or advertising of interactive entertainment software. Other countries, such as Germany, prohibit certain types of content. In the United States, numerous laws have been introduced at the federal and state level which attempt to restrict the content of products such as ours or the distribution of such products. For example, recent legislation has been adopted in several states, and proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain games (e.g., violent games or those with “M (Mature)” or “AO (Adults Only)” ratings) to minors. In addition, a number of state legislative bodies in states such as Illinois, California, Michigan, and Washington have introduced various forms of legislation designed to regulate and control sales of video games deemed inappropriate for sales to minors. New and recent incidents may lead to increased pressure for legislative activity. To date, all the courts have ruled on such legislation in a manner favorable to the interactive entertainment software industry. But in the event such legislation is adopted and enforced, the sales of our products may be harmed because the products we are able to offer to our customers and the size of the potential market for our products may be limited. We may also be required to modify our products or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new and possibly inconsistent regulations, which could be costly or delay the release of our products. If one or more of our titles were found to contain objectionable undisclosed, pertinent content, our business could suffer. Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. However, in some cases, undisclosed, pertinent content or features have been found in other publishers’ interactive entertainment software products. In a few cases, the ESRB has reacted to discoveries of undisclosed, pertinent content and features by changing the rating that was originally assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game and/or game packaging and/or fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such undisclosed content by removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that their publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, interactive entertainment software consumers have reacted to the revelation of undisclosed content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they have already purchased, refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable material, and, in at least one occasion, filing a lawsuit against the publisher of the product containing such content. We have implemented preventative measures designed to reduce the possibility of objectionable undisclosed, pertinent content from appearing in the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventative measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed, pertinent content, the ESRB could demand that we recall a game and change its packaging to reflect a revised rating, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and/or consumers could refuse to buy it, demand that we refund their money or file a lawsuit against us. This could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. 18 Our products may be subject to legal claims. In prior fiscal years, at least two lawsuits have been filed against numerous video game companies, including us, by the families of victims who were shot and killed by teenage gunmen in attacks perpetrated at schools. These lawsuits alleged that the video game companies manufactured and/or supplied these teenagers with violent video games, teaching them how to use a gun and causing them to act out in a violent manner. These lawsuits have been dismissed. Similar additional lawsuits may be filed in the future. Although our general liability insurance carrier agreed to defend us in such lawsuits in the past, it is uncertain whether the insurance carrier would do so in the future, or if it would cover all or any amounts which we might be liable for if such future lawsuits are not decided in our favor. If such future lawsuits are filed and ultimately decided against us and our insurance carrier does not cover the amounts we are liable for, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Payment of significant claims by insurance carriers may make such insurance coverage materially more expensive or unavailable in the future, thereby exposing our business to additional risk. Other Risks Relating to Our Business and Ownership of Our Stock We seek to manage our business with a view to achieving long-term results, and this could have a negative effect on short-term trading. We focus on creation of shareholder value over time, and we intend to make decisions that will be consistent with this long-term view. As a result, some of our decisions, such as whether to make or discontinue operating investments, manage our balance sheet and capital structure, or pursue or discontinue strategic initiatives, may be in conflict with the objectives of short-term traders. Further, this could adversely affect our quarterly or other short-term results of operations. We may face limitations on our ability to find suitable acquisition opportunities or to integrate additional acquired businesses. We intend to pursue additional acquisitions of companies, properties, and other assets that can be purchased or licensed on acceptable terms and which we believe can be operated or exploited profitably. Some of these transactions could be material in size and scope. Although we continue to search for additional acquisition opportunities, we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisitions. As the interactive entertainment software industry continues to consolidate, we face significant competition in seeking and consummating acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or an acquisition may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. In the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute our existing shareholders. Future acquisitions could also divert substantial management time and result in short-term reductions in earnings or special transaction or other charges. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses that we may acquire into our existing business. Our shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on, or evaluate future acquisitions. From time to time, we may make a capital investment and hold a minority interest in a third-party developer in connection with interactive entertainment software products to be developed by such developer for us, which we believe helps to create a closer relationship between us and the developer. We account for those capital investments over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity method. For those investments over which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, we account for our investment using the cost method. There can be no assurance that we will realize long-term benefits from such investments or that we will continue to carry such investments at their current value. Our shareholder rights plan, charter documents, and other agreements may make it more difficult to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan under which one right entitling the holder to purchase one six-hundredths (1/600) of a share, as adjusted on account of stock dividends made since the plan’s adoption, of our Series A Junior Preferred Stock price at an exercise price of $6.67 per share, subject to adjustment and as adjusted on account of stock dividends made since the plan’s adoption, is attached to each outstanding share of common stock. Such shareholder rights plan makes an acquisition of control in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. Our Amended and Restated By-laws have advance notice provisions for nominations for election of nominees to the Board of Directors which may make it more difficult to acquire control of us. Our long-term 19 incentive plans provide, in the discretion of a committee, for acceleration of stock options following a change in control under certain circumstances, which has the effect of making an acquisition of control more expensive. In addition, some of our officers have severance compensation agreements that provide for substantial cash payments and accelerations of other benefits in the event of a change in control. These agreements and arrangements may also inhibit a change in control. Limitations on our capacity or ability to issue stock and options may require us to use more cash in our employee compensation packages. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our option plans limit the number of shares of our stock and the number of stock options that we can issue. To increase these limits, we must seek and obtain approval of our stockholders. If our stockholders do not approve increases in our available stock and option “pool”, our ability to offer stock and stock options to new and existing employees will be limited. This may in turn impair our ability to recruit and retain employees. It may also require us to place greater reliance on cash compensation, which may not be as attractive to existing and prospective employees. Increased use of cash for employee compensation will also reduce the amount of cash available to us for other uses. Each of these consequences could have negative effects on our business and financial results. Our stock price is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many factors, including: • Quarter to quarter variations in results of operations; • Our announcements of new products; • Our competitors’ announcements of new products; • Our product development or release schedule; • General conditions in the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, and in the economy; • Timing of the introduction of new platforms and delays in the actual release of new platforms; • Hardware manufacturers’ announcements of price reductions in hardware platforms; • Consumer spending trends; • Changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and • Investor perceptions and expectations regarding our products, plans and strategic position, and those of our competitors and customers. In addition, the public stock markets experience extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In our fiscal year 2007, we began recognizing stock-based compensation expense in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” related to our employee equity compensation and employee stock purchase programs. The recognition of this expense has a significant impact in lowering our reported net income (or increase our reported net loss). Beginning in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”), which requires us to recognize compensation expense for all stock-based awards based on estimated fair values. As a result, beginning with our first quarter 20 of fiscal 2007, our operating results contain a charge for stock-based compensation related to the equity-based awards we provide to our employees, as well as stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plans. This expense is in addition to the stock-based compensation expense we have recognized in prior periods related to restricted stock unit grants, acquisitions and other grants. The stock-based compensation charges we incur depend on the number of equity-based awards we grant and the number of shares of common stock we sell under our employee stock purchase plans, as well as a number of estimates and variables such as estimated forfeiture rates, the trading price and volatility of our common stock, the expected term of our options, and interest rates. As a result, our stock-based compensation charges can vary significantly from period to period. Going forward, our adoption of SFAS 123R will continue to significantly lower our reported net income (or increase our reported net loss), which could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also required to estimate what our taxes will be in the future. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in our business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws as well as other factors. Further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income could be materially affected. We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our international revenues may be affected by regulatory requirements and barriers, cultural differences and currency fluctuations. Our international revenues have accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues. International sales and licensing accounted for 50%, 52% and 50%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues in the future. International sales may be subject to unexpected regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other barriers. Additionally, foreign sales that are made in local currencies may fluctuate. We have and may continue to engage in limited currency hedging activities. While these hedging activities mitigate some foreign currency risk, our reported results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the Euro, British pound sterling, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar. Currency exchange rate fluctuations had a positive impact on revenues from internal sales and licensing in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. In the future, currency exchange rates may have a negative or materially adverse impact on revenues from international sales and licensing and thus on our business and financial results. In addition, cultural differences may affect consumer preferences and limit the popularity of titles that are “hits” in the United States. If we do not correctly assess consumer preferences in the countries in our market, our sales and revenue may be lower than expected. Risk Factors Relating to Results of the Special Subcommittee Review of our Stock Option Granting Practices SEC investigation and litigation relating to stock options remain pending and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although the special subcommittee of independent members of our Board of Directors established in July 2006 to review our historical stock option granting practices (the “Special Subcommittee”) has completed its review of those practices and our stock option grants made in the period between 1992 and 2006, a formal investigation by 21 the SEC relating to our stock option granting practices remains pending, as does derivative litigation against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers. Although we believe that we have taken appropriate action by restating our financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, as filed in our Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A on May 25, 2007, and made appropriate disclosures for matters relating to stock options, the SEC (or the court in the derivative actions) may disagree with the findings of the Special Subcommittee or with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past option grant measurement date errors. If so, we may need to further restate our prior financial statements, further amend our filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, these proceedings are likely to result in additional legal expense that may affect our results in future periods, and may also result in diversion of management attention and other resources, as well as fines, penalties, damages and other sanctions. These eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot currently predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings. We had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In assessing the findings of the Special Subcommittee’s review and the restatement set forth in our Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, our management concluded that there was a material weakness, as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 2, in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2006. Our management concluded that this weakness was remedied as of March 31, 2007 with the adoption of new equity compensation policies and procedures by the Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors and, accordingly, no longer exists as of the date of this filing. See the discussion included in Part II, Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 for additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. As a result of the delayed filing of certain of our periodic reports, we will be ineligible to use Form S-3 or Form S-4 for a period of time. This may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain types of corporate acquisition and capital-raising transactions. As a result of our delayed filing of certain of our periodic reports, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 or Form S-4 for sale by us or resale by other security holders until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for a period of time. In the meantime, we have the ability 22 to use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions. The need to use Form S-1, and the inability to use Form S-3 or Form S-4, could increase our transaction costs and adversely affect our ability to engage in certain types of corporate acquisition and capital-raising transactions until we regain our S-3/S-4 eligibility. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 