Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations, and the market value of our securities could decline. The risks discussed below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks exist that we do not currently believe to be material, and there may also be other risks that are not currently known to us, that may also harm our business and adversely affect our future financial performance and the market value of our stock. Risks Factors Relating to the Interactive Entertainment Industry and Our Business We depend on a relatively small number of franchises for a significant portion of our revenues and profits. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from products based on a relatively small number of popular franchises each year, and these products are responsible for a disproportionate amount of our profits. In addition, many of these products have substantial production or acquisition costs and marketing budgets. In fiscal 2008, 65% of our consolidated net revenues and 75% of our worldwide publishing net revenues were derived from three franchises and in fiscal 2007, 39% of our consolidated net revenues and 52% of our worldwide publishing net revenues were derived from three franchises. We expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately large amount of our revenues and profits. Due to this dependence on a limited number of franchises, the failure to achieve anticipated results by one or more products based on these franchises may significantly harm our business and financial results. Our future success depends on our ability to release popular products. The life of any one console or handheld game product is relatively short and generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. Because revenues associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total revenues associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause such operating results to be materially different from expectations. It is therefore important for us to be able to continue to develop many high quality new products that are popularly received. We focus our development and publishing activities principally on 12 products that are, or have the potential to become, franchise brand properties. If we are unable to do this, our business and financial results may be negatively affected. Our business is "hit" driven. If we do not deliver "hit" titles, or if consumers prefer competing products, our sales could suffer. While many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of "hit" titles account for a significant portion of net revenues. Competitors may develop titles that imitate or compete with our "hit" titles, and take sales away from us or reduce our ability to command premium prices for those titles. Hit products published by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than anticipated, which could cause our product sales to fall below expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or offer competitive products at lower prices, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well received products, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to intellectual property, we may publish fewer "hit" titles and our revenue may decline. Some of our products are based on intellectual property and other character or story rights acquired or licensed from third parties. These license and distribution agreements are limited in scope and time, and we may not be able to renew key licenses when they expire or to include new products in existing licenses. The loss of a significant number of our intellectual property licenses or of our relationships with licensors, or our inability to obtain additional licenses of significant commercial value could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop new products and therefore on our business and financial results. Additionally, the failure of intellectual property acquired by us to be popularly received could impact the market acceptance of those products in which the intellectual property is included. Such lack of market acceptance could result in the write-off of the unrecovered portion of acquired intellectual property assets, which could cause material harm to our business and financial results. Furthermore, the competition for these licenses and distribution agreements is often intense. Competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees, and royalties that we must pay to the licensor. Our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony's PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable, Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Nintendo's Wii and DS. The success of our business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of these video game platforms, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. A new platform for which we are developing products may be delayed, may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. Alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than initially anticipated, causing us to miss a meaningful revenue opportunity. Additionally, if the platforms for which we are developing products are not released when anticipated, are not available in adequate quantities to meet consumer demand, or do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue may suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing those products, and our financial performance may be harmed. 13 Transitions in console platforms could have a material impact on the market for interactive entertainment software. In 2005, Microsoft released the Xbox 360 and, in 2006, Sony and Nintendo introduced their respective next-generation hardware platforms, the PlayStation 3 and Wii. When new console platforms are announced or introduced into the market, consumers typically reduce their purchases of game console entertainment software products for current console platforms in anticipation of new platforms becoming available. During these periods, sales of our game console entertainment software products may be expected to slow or even decline until new platforms are introduced and achieve wide consumer acceptance. This decline may not be offset by increased sales of products for the new console platforms. As console hardware moves through its life cycle, hardware manufacturers typically enact price reductions and decreasing prices may put downward pressure on software prices. During platform transitions, we may simultaneously incur costs both in continuing to develop and market new titles for prior-generation video game platforms, which may not sell at premium prices, and also in developing products for next-generation platforms, which will not generate immediate or near-term revenue. As a result, our operating results during platform transitions may be more volatile and more difficult to predict than during other times, and such volatility may cause greater fluctuations in our stock price. We must make significant expenditures to develop products for new platforms which may not be successful. We must make substantial product development and other investments in a particular platform well in advance of introduction of the platform and may be required to realign our product portfolio and development efforts in response to market changes. Furthermore, development costs for new console platforms are greater than such costs for current console platforms. If increased costs are not offset by higher revenues and other cost efficiencies, our operating results will suffer and our financial position will be harmed. If the platforms for which we develop new software products or modify existing products do not attain significant market penetration, we may not be able to recover our development costs, which could be significant, and our business and financial results could be significantly harmed. If the average price of prior-generation titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on next-generation titles, our operating results will suffer. We have experienced a decrease in the average price of titles for prior-generation platforms. With the transition of the interactive entertainment industry to next-generation video game platforms, fewer prior-generation titles are able to command premium prices, and we expect that even those titles that can do so will be subject to price reductions at an earlier point in their sales cycle than was the case with prior platform transitions. We expect the average price of prior-generation titles to continue to be under pressure, which may have a negative effect on our margins and operating results. Next-generation titles for the Xbox 360, Sony's PlayStation 3 and the Nintendo Wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. We expect to continue to price next-generation titles at a premium level, but if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these next-generation titles we may experience a negative effect on our margins and operating results. The interactive entertainment industry is highly competitive and our competitors may succeed in narrowing our market share and reducing our sales. We compete with other publishers of PC and video game console interactive entertainment software and peripherals. Those competitors vary in size from small companies with limited resources to very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing, and product development resources than we have. For example, integrated video game console hardware and software companies such as Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft compete directly with us in the development of software titles 14 for their respective platforms. Certain of these competitors may spend more money and time on developing and testing products, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, pay higher fees to licensors for desirable motion picture, television, sports, music and character properties, and pay more to third-party software developers than we do. We also compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. For example, the overall growth in the use of the Internet and online services by consumers may pose a competitive threat if customers and potential customers spend less of their available time using interactive entertainment software and more using the Internet and online services. A number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the Internet. Future increased consumer acceptance and increases in the availability of online games or technological advances in online game software or the Internet could result in a decline in platform-based software and negatively impact sales of our console and handheld products. Direct sales of software over the Internet by competitors could materially adversely affect our distribution business as well. Competition in the interactive entertainment industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge. Our platform licensors are our chief competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of and have broad approval rights over our console and handheld video game products. Generally, when we develop interactive entertainment software products for hardware platforms offered by Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft, the products are manufactured exclusively by that hardware manufacturer or their approved replicator. The agreements with these manufacturers include certain provisions, such as approval rights over all software products and related hardware peripherals and promotional materials and the ability to change the fee they charge for the manufacturing of products, which allow them substantial influence over the cost and the release schedule of such interactive entertainment software products. In addition, since each of the manufacturers is also a publisher of games for its own hardware platforms and manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of our competitors in the event of insufficient manufacturing capacity. Accordingly, Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft could cause unanticipated delays in the release of our products as well as increases to our projected development, manufacturing, marketing, or distribution costs, which could materially harm our business and financial results. In addition, platform licensors control our ability to provide online game capabilities for console platform products and in large part establish the financial terms on which these services are offered to consumers. Currently, Microsoft provides online capabilities for the Xbox 360 and Sony provides online capabilities for PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 products. In each case, compatibility code and/or the consent of the licensor are required for us to include online capabilities in our console products. As these capabilities become more significant, the failure or refusal of licensors to approve our products may harm our business and financial results. Our platform licensors set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. We pay a licensing fee to the hardware manufacturer for each copy of a product manufactured for that manufacturer's game platform. In order to publish products for new hardware platforms, we must take a license from the platform licensor which gives the platform licensor the opportunity to set the fee structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly, the platform licensors have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures for online gameplay and features for their consoles and the manufacturing of products. The control that platform licensors have over the fee 15 structures for their platforms and online access makes it difficult for us to predict our costs and profitability in the medium to long term. It is also possible that platform licensors will not renew our existing licenses. Because publishing products for console systems is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee structures or nonrenewal of licenses could have a significant negative impact on our business model and profitability. We rely on independent third parties to develop some of our software products. We rely on independent third-party software developers to develop some of our software products. Since we depend on these developers, in the aggregate, we remain subject to the following risks: •continuing strong demand for developers' resources, combined with the recognition they receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked for us in the past either to work for a competitor in the future or to renegotiate our agreements with them on terms less favorable for us; •limited financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing products or require us to fund additional costs; and •our competitors may acquire the businesses of key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements. In either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers' services for our products, except for those that they are contractually obligated to complete development of for us. Increased competition for skilled third-party software developers also has compelled us to agree to make significant advance payments on royalties to game developers. If the products subject to these arrangements do not generate sufficient revenues to recover these royalty advances, we would have to write-off unrecovered portions of these payments, which could cause material harm to our business and financial results. Typically, we pay developers a royalty based on a percentage of net revenues, less agreed upon deductions, but from time to time, we have agreed to pay developers fixed per unit product royalties after royalty advances are fully recouped. To the extent that sales prices of products on which we have agreed to pay a fixed per unit royalty are marked down, our profitability could be adversely affected. If our products contain defects, our business could be harmed significantly. Software products and hardware peripherals as complex as the ones we publish and distribute may contain undetected errors and defects. This risk is often higher when such products or peripherals are first introduced or when new versions are released. Failure to avoid, or to timely detect and correct, such errors or defects could result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance, and could significantly harm our business, financial results, and reputation. We may permit our customers to return products and to receive pricing concessions which could reduce our net revenues and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk of product returns and price protection with respect to our distributors and retailers. Return policies allow distributors and retailers to return defective, shelf-worn, and damaged products in accordance with terms granted. Price protection, when granted and applicable, allows customers a credit against amounts owed to us with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, our customers under certain conditions. These conditions include compliance with applicable payment terms, delivery of weekly inventory and sell-through reports, and consistent participation in the launches of our premium title releases. We may also consider other factors, including the facilitation of slow-moving inventory and other market factors. 16 When we offer price protection, we offer it with respect to a particular product to all of our retail customers (although only customers who meet the conditions detailed above are entitled to such price protection). We also offer a 90-day limited warranty to our end users that our products will be free from manufacturing defects. Although we maintain a reserve for returns and price protection, and although we may place limits on product returns and price protection, we could be forced to accept substantial product returns and provide substantial price protection to maintain our relationships with retailers and our access to distribution channels. Product returns and price protection that exceed our reserves could significantly harm our business and financial results. Sales of certain titles such as Guitar Hero are affected by hardware peripheral availability. Some of our titles involve one or more separate hardware peripherals, such as the guitar controller in Guitar Hero. Typically, we sell such software both in bundles with the hardware peripheral and on a stand-alone basis. Consumers may not want to buy such game software if they cannot also buy the hardware peripheral. If we underestimate demand or otherwise are unable to produce sufficient quantities of the hardware peripheral of an acceptable quality or allocate too few peripherals to geographic markets and hardware platforms where demand exceeds supply, we will forego revenue. This may also create greater opportunities for competitors to develop or gain market share with competitive product offerings. If we overestimate demand and make too many peripherals, or allocate too many peripherals to geographic markets and hardware platforms where there is insufficient demand, we will incur unrecoverable manufacturing costs for unsold units as well as for unsold game software. In either case, hardware peripheral manufacturing and allocation decisions may negatively affect our financial performance. A limited number of manufacturers are authorized by Sony, Nintendo or Microsoft to make the hardware peripherals for Guitar Hero, and the majority of those manufacturers are located in China. Anything that adversely impacts the ability of those manufacturers to produce or otherwise supply the hardware peripherals for us, including the revocation of the first-party license to produce the hardware, the utilization of such manufacturer's capacity by one of our competitors, natural disasters that disrupt manufacturing, transportation or communications, labor shortages, civil unrest or issues generally negatively impacting international companies operating in China, may adversely impact our ability to supply those peripherals to the market. We may face difficulty obtaining access to retail shelf space necessary to market and sell our products effectively. Retailers typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition among consumer interactive entertainment software products for high quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. To the extent that the number of products and platforms increases, competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new products will consistently achieve such "best seller" status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees, and product return policies. Our products constitute a relatively small percentage of any retailer's sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or to provide those products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms. A prolonged failure in this regard may significantly harm our business and financial results. 17 Our sales may decline substantially without warning and in a brief period of time because a majority of our sales are made to a relatively small number of key customers and because we do not have long-term contracts for the sale of our products. In the United States and Canada, we primarily sell our products on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses, and game specialty stores. Our products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and licensing arrangements and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. Our sales are made primarily on a purchase order basis without long-term agreements or other forms of commitments. Our largest customers, Wal-Mart and GameStop, accounted for approximately 14% and 13%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and approximately 22% and 8%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. The loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any of our principal retail customers or distributors could significantly harm our business and financial results. The concentration of sales in a small number of large customers also could make us more vulnerable to collection risk if one or more of these large customers became unable to pay for our products. In addition, having such a large portion of our total net revenue concentrated in a few customers reduces our negotiating leverage with these customers. We may be burdened with payment defaults and uncollectible accounts if our distributors or retailers cannot honor their existing credit arrangements. Distributors and retailers in the interactive entertainment industry have from time to time experienced significant fluctuations in their businesses and a number of them have failed. The insolvency or business failure of any significant retailer or distributor of our products could materially harm our business and financial results. We typically make sales to most such retailers and some such distributors on unsecured credit, with terms that vary depending upon the customer's credit history, solvency, credit limits, and sales history, as well as whether we can obtain sufficient credit insurance. Although, as in the case with most of our customers, we have insolvency risk insurance to protect against a customer's bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation, this insurance contains a significant deductible and co-payment obligation, and does not cover all instances of non-payment. In addition, although we maintain a reserve for uncollectible receivables, the reserve may not be sufficient in every circumstance. As a result, a payment default by a significant customer could significantly harm our business and financial results. We may not be able to maintain our distribution relationships with key vendors and customers. Our CD Contact, NBG, and Centresoft subsidiaries distribute interactive entertainment software and hardware products and provide related services in the Benelux countries, Germany, and the United Kingdom, respectively, and via export in other European countries for a variety of entertainment software publishers, many of which are our competitors, and hardware manufacturers. From time to time, they also maintain exclusive relationships to serve certain retail customers. These services are generally performed subject to limited-term arrangements. Although we expect to use reasonable efforts to retain these vendors and retail customer relationships, we may not be successful in this regard. The cancellation or non-renewal of one or more of these arrangements could adversely affect business and financial results. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, including the popularity, price and timing of the release of our games and the platforms on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical 18 reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. Many of these risks are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our business and financial results. As online functionality becomes an increasingly important feature of our software products, we may need to defer the recognition of an increasing amount of revenue, which may adversely affect the net revenue, net income and earnings per share that we will report under GAAP. As online functionality becomes a more important component of gameplay, an increasing number of our online-enabled games may contain a more-than-inconsequential separate service deliverable in addition to the product, and our performance obligations for these games will extend beyond the sale of the games. Vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value does not exist for the online services, as we do not plan to separately charge for this component of online-enabled games. As a result, for certain key titles to be released in the December quarter of fiscal year 2009 and thereafter, we will recognize all of the revenues from the sale of certain online-enabled games for certain platforms ratably over an estimated service period, which we currently estimate to be six months beginning the month after shipment. In addition, we will defer the costs of sales of those titles. This may have an adverse effect on the revenue, net income and earnings per share that we will report for future periods under GAAP. If we are required to recognize a greater portion of the revenue of a sale after shipment, or if we are required to recognize revenue over a longer service period, there may be an adverse effect on our reported net revenue, net income and earnings per share under GAAP. We are exposed to seasonality in the sale of our products. The interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand occurring during the calendar year end holiday buying season. As a result, net revenues, gross profits, and operating income have historically been highest during the second half of the calendar year. Our receivables and credit risk are likewise higher during the second half of the calendar year as customers stock up on our products for the holiday season. Further, delays in development, licensor approvals, or manufacturing can also affect the timing of the release of our products, causing us to miss key selling periods such as the calendar year end holiday buying season. We may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. A significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of personnel and facilities. In the event of a significant decline in revenues, we may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to operations or without significant termination and exit costs. Management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenues and profit. If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, and retain skilled personnel. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with technical, marketing, sales, product development, and management skills. We may have difficulties in attracting and retaining skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. If we are unable to attract additional qualified employees or retain the services of key personnel, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. 19 Our products are subject to the threat of piracy and unauthorized copying, and inadequate intellectual property laws and other protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary technologies. We may also face legal risks arising out of user-generated content. We regard our software as proprietary and rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We own or license various copyrights, patents, and trademarks. We are aware that some unauthorized copying occurs, and if a significantly greater amount of unauthorized copying of our software products were to occur, it could cause material harm to our business and financial results. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem, especially in certain countries. Further, the laws of some countries where our products are or may be distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or are poorly enforced. Legal protection of our rights may be ineffective in such countries. In addition, though we take steps to make the unauthorized copying and distribution of our products more difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which the majority of our games are played, our efforts and those of the console manufacturers may not be successful in controlling the piracy of our products. Organized pirate operations have been expanding globally. In addition, the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent the protection measures used in our products, the availability of broadband access to the Internet, the ability to download pirated copies of our games from various Internet sites and peer-to-peer networks, and the widespread proliferation of Internet cafes using pirated copies of our products, all have contributed to an expansion in piracy. This could have a negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future. Moreover, as we leverage our software products using technologies such as the Internet and online services, and as user-generated content increases, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and to avoid infringing intellectual property rights of others may diminish. We cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products in connection with these emerging technologies. Data breaches involving the source code for our products or customer or employee data we store could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. We store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created on multiple electronic devices. In addition, we store confidential information with respect to our customers and employees. A breach of the systems on which such source code, account information (including personally identifiable information) and other sensitive data is stored could lead to piracy of our software or fraudulent activity resulting in claims and lawsuits against us in connection with data security breaches. If we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or be forced to pay damages or other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect profitability. In addition, any damage to our reputation resulting from a data breach could have a material adverse impact on either revenue and future growth prospects, or increased costs arising from the implementation of additional security measures. We may be subject to intellectual property claims. As the number of interactive entertainment software products increases and the features and content of these products continue to overlap, software developers increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Many of our products are highly realistic and feature materials that are based on real world examples, which may be the subject of intellectual property infringement claims of others. In addition, our products often utilize complex, cutting edge technology that may become subject to emerging intellectual property rights of others. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third 20 parties still may claim infringement. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming, distracting to management and expensive to defend. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: •cease selling, incorporating, or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; •obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms; or •redesign the affected interactive entertainment software products or hardware peripherals, which could result in additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of the affected products. Any of these actions may cause material harm to our business and financial results. Our products are subject to ratings by the Entertainment Software Rating Board and similar agencies. Failure to obtain our target ratings for our products could negatively impact our sales. The Entertainment Software Rating Board, or ESRB, is a self-regulatory body in the U.S. which provides consumers of interactive entertainment software with ratings information, including information relating to violence, nudity, or sexual content contained in software titles. Certain countries other than the U.S. have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements of the rating systems, which could delay or disrupt the release of any given product, or may prevent its sale altogether in certain territories. The relevant ESRB ratings include "Everyone" (age 6 and older), "Everyone 10+" (age 10 and older), "Teen" (age 13 and over), or "Mature" (age 17 and over). Certain of our titles have received a "Mature" rating. None of our titles has received the "Adults Only" rating (18 and over). We believe that we comply with rating systems and properly display the ratings and content descriptions received for our titles. If we are unable to obtain the ratings we have targeted for our products as a result of changes in the ESRB's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. Our business, products, and distribution are subject to increasing regulation of content in key territories. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer. Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both the content and the distribution of our products. For example, privacy laws in the United States and Europe impose various restrictions on the collection and storage of personal information. Those laws and regulations vary by territory. In addition, many foreign countries have laws that permit governmental entities to censor the content and/or advertising of interactive entertainment software. Other countries, such as Germany, prohibit certain types of content. In the United States, numerous laws have been introduced at the federal and state level which attempt to restrict the content of games or the distribution of such products. For example, legislation has been adopted in several states, and proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain games (e.g., violent games or those with "M (Mature)" or "AO (Adults Only)" ratings) to minors. In addition, a number of state legislative bodies in states such as Illinois, California, Michigan, and Washington have introduced various forms of legislation designed to regulate and control sales of video games deemed inappropriate for sales to minors. Some argue that there is a link between video games and violence, which may lead to increased pressure for legislative activity. To date, most courts that have ruled on such legislation have ruled in a manner favorable to the interactive entertainment industry. But in the event such legislation is adopted and enforced, the sales of our products may be 21 harmed because the products we are able to offer to our customers and the size of the potential market for our products may be limited. We may also be required to modify certain products or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new and possibly inconsistent regulations, which could be costly or delay the release of our products. If one or more of our titles were found to contain objectionable undisclosed content, our business could suffer. Throughout the history of the interactive entertainment industry, many video games have been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. However, in some cases, undisclosed content or features have been found in other publishers' interactive entertainment software products. In a few cases, the ESRB has reacted to discoveries of undisclosed content and features by changing the rating that was originally assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game and/or game packaging and/or fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such undisclosed content by removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that their publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, interactive entertainment software consumers have reacted to the revelation of undisclosed content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they have already purchased, refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable material, and, in at least one occasion, filing a lawsuit against the publisher of the product containing such content. We have implemented preventive measures designed to reduce the possibility of objectionable undisclosed content from appearing in the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventive measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. If a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed content, the ESRB could demand that the game be recalled and its packaging changed to reflect a revised rating, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand the acceptance of returns of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and/or consumers could refuse to buy it, demand refunds or file lawsuits against us. This could have a material negative impact on operating results and financial condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of our other video games. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Our products may be subject to legal claims. In prior fiscal years, at least two lawsuits have been filed against numerous video game companies, including against us, by the families of victims who were shot and killed by teenage gunmen in attacks perpetrated at schools. These lawsuits alleged that the video game companies manufactured and/or supplied these teenagers with violent video games, teaching them how to use a gun and causing them to act out in a violent manner. These lawsuits have been dismissed. Similar additional lawsuits may be filed in the future. Although, our general liability insurance carrier agreed to defend prior lawsuits of this nature against us, it is uncertain whether our insurance carrier would do so in the future, or if such insurance carriers would cover all or any amounts for which we might be liable if such future lawsuits are not decided in our favor. If such future lawsuits are filed and ultimately decided against us and our insurance carrier does not cover the amounts for which we may be liable, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Payment of significant claims by insurance carriers may make such insurance coverage materially more expensive or unavailable in the future, thereby exposing us to additional risk. Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade. We conduct business throughout the world, and derive a substantial amount of revenue from international trade, particularly from Europe and Australia. Revenues outside of North America have accounted for 39%, 50% and 52% of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, 22 respectively. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant portion of total revenues in the future. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased tariffs and duties, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which may impact our operating margins or make it more difficult, if not impossible, for us to conduct business in foreign markets. For example, a deterioration in relations between the U.S. and any country in which we have significant operations or sales could result in the adoption or expansion of trade restrictions that harm our business and operating results, as could the implementation of government regulations in a country in which we have significant operations or sales. If government regulations or restrictions prevent us from repatriating internationally derived revenue into the U.S., or a country's tax structure makes repatriation prohibitively expensive, we may not transfer this revenue into the U.S., which could affect our ability to reinvest or utilize such amounts in our business. In addition, cultural differences may affect consumer preferences and limit the popularity of titles that are "hits" in the United States. If we do not correctly assess consumer preferences in the countries in our market, our sales and revenue may be lower than expected. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a negative impact on our business. We transact business in various currencies other than the U.S. dollar and have significant international sales and expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, subjecting us to currency exchange rate risks. We have engaged in limited currency hedging activities and, while these hedging activities mitigate some currency exchange rate risks, our reported revenues from international sales and licensing, and thus our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected by unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates. Other Risks Relating to Our Business and Ownership of Our Stock We seek to manage our business with a view to achieving long-term results, and this could have a negative effect on short-term trading. We focus on creation of shareholder value over time, and we intend to make decisions that will be consistent with this long-term view. As a result, some of our decisions, such as whether to make or discontinue operating investments, manage our balance sheet and capital structure, or pursue or discontinue strategic initiatives, may be in conflict with the objectives of short-term traders. Further, this could adversely affect our quarterly or other short-term results of operations. We may face limitations on our ability to find suitable acquisition opportunities or to integrate additional acquired businesses. We intend to pursue additional acquisitions of companies, properties, and other assets that can be purchased or licensed on acceptable terms and which we believe can be operated or exploited profitably. Some of these transactions could be material in size and scope. Although we continue to search for additional acquisition opportunities, we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisitions. As the interactive entertainment software industry continues to consolidate, we face significant competition in seeking and consummating acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or an acquisition may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. In the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with one or more acquisitions, which may dilute our existing shareholders. Future acquisitions could also divert substantial management time and result in short-term reductions in earnings or special transaction, ongoing goodwill amortization or other charges . In addition, we cannot 23 guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses that we may acquire into our existing business. Our shareholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on, or evaluate future acquisitions. From time to time, we may make a capital investment and hold a minority interest in a third-party developer in connection with interactive entertainment software products to be developed by such developer for us, which we believe helps to create a closer relationship between us and the developer. We account for those capital investments over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity method. For those investments over which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence, we account for our investment using the cost method. There can be no assurance that we will realize long-term benefits from such investments or that we will continue to carry such investments at their current value. Our shareholder rights plan, charter documents, and other agreements may make it more difficult to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan under which one right entitles the holder to purchase one six-hundredths of a share of our Series A Junior Preferred Stock, as adjusted on account of stock dividends made since the plan's adoption (as so adjusted, one-hundredths (1/100) of a share), at an exercise price of $6.67 per share, as adjusted on account of stock dividends made since the plan's adoption (as so adjusted, $1.11 per share) is attached to each outstanding share of common stock. Such rights only become exercisable if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock (or announces or commences an offer which would result in their owning 15% of the stock) and if such an acquisition occurs, generally each holder of a right may exercise that right for a number of shares of our common stock having a value equal to two times the then-current exercise price of the right (which would currently be $2.22) in lieu of shares of Series A Junior Preferred Stock. This plan therefore makes an acquisition of control in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors more difficult. The rights plan was amended in connection with the proposed transaction with Vivendi to provide that such transaction will not trigger the rights under the plan and will terminate if and when the transaction is consummated, extinguishing all rights thereunder. However, until such time as the transaction closes the rights plan continues to make it difficult for a company to acquire us without approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, our Amended and Restated By-laws have advance notice provisions for nominations for election of nominees to the Board of Directors which may make it more difficult to acquire control of us. Our long-term incentive plans provide, in the discretion of a committee, for acceleration of stock options following a change in control under certain circumstances, which has the effect of making an acquisition of control more expensive. In addition, some of our officers have severance compensation agreements that provide for substantial cash payments or the acceleration of other benefits in the event of a change in control. These agreements and arrangements may also inhibit a change in control. Historically, our stock price has been highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many factors, including: •quarter to quarter variations in our results of operations; •our announcements of new products; •our competitors' announcements of new products; •our product development or release schedule; •general conditions in the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, and in the economy; 24 •the timing of the introduction of new platforms and delays in the actual release of new platforms; •our hardware manufacturers' announcements of price changes in hardware platforms; •consumer spending trends; •the outcome of lawsuits or regulatory investigations in which we are involved; •changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and •investor perceptions and expectations regarding products, plans and strategic position, and those of our competitors and customers. In addition, the public stock markets may experience extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are required to estimate future taxes. Although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in our business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our tax elections, changes in applicable tax laws as well as other factors. Further, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should our ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income could be materially affected. We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various other jurisdictions. Tax authorities regularly examine these non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. SEC investigation and litigation relating to stock options remain pending and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although the special subcommittee of independent members of our board of directors established in July 2006 to review our historical stock option granting practices, which we refer to as the special subcommittee, has completed its review of those practices and our stock option grants made in the period between 1992 and 2006, and although we have made to the SEC Staff an offer of settlement of the SEC's formal investigation relating to our stock option granting practices, which the SEC Staff has indicated it is prepared to recommend to the SEC, and have agreed to a settlement of the derivative litigation against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, the settlement with the SEC remains subject to final documentation and then approval by the Commission and the settlement of the derivative litigation remain subject to final court approval. We believe that we have taken appropriate action by restating our financial statements through the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, as filed in our amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A on May 25, 2007, and made appropriate disclosures for matters relating to stock options. If, however, the pending settlements are not approved, 25 the SEC could institute enforcement action seeking other or additional relief or the court in the derivative actions could make findings disagreeing with the findings of the special subcommittee or with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past option grant measurement date errors. If so, we could be required to further restate our prior financial statements, further amend our filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, additional proceedings would be likely to result in additional legal expense that may affect our results in future periods, and may also result in diversion of management attention and other resources, as well as fines, penalties, damages and other sanctions against the company or individual directors and officers. These eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot currently predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. As of March 31, 2008, the par value of our investment in auction rate securities was $95.2 million, or approximately 6%, of our cash, cash equivalents and investments, and the fair value of these securities was estimated to be $90.9 million, or $4.3 million below par. The change in fair value was recorded as a component of comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity, as the decline in fair value is not considered to be "other-than-temporary". The auction rate securities we currently hold are all long term debt obligations secured by student loans, and they carry a "AAA" credit rating—the highest rating given to securities—by a nationally recognized rating agency. Liquidity for these auction rate securities is typically provided by an auction process which allows holders to sell their notes and resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually every 7 to 35 days. Each of the auction rate securities in our investment portfolio as of March 31, 2008 has experienced a failed auction. There is no assurance that future auctions for these securities will succeed. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. In the event that there is a failed auction, the indenture governing the security requires the issuer to pay interest at a contractually defined rate that is generally above market rates for other types of similar short-term instruments. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to earn interest at the contractual rate and be auctioned every 7 to 35 days until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities or they mature. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. All of our investments were classified as short-term as of December 31, 2007, because such securities were reasonably expected to be realized in cash or sold or consumed during the normal operating cycle of the business, however we have classified these securities as non-current investments in our consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2008 due to uncertainties of the timing of liquidation. If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions, their credit ratings deteriorate and we determine that an "other-than-temporary" decline in fair market value has occurred, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. We believe we will be able to liquidate our investment without significant loss, and we currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the government guarantee of a substantial portion of the underlying loans, however, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 39 years) to realize our investments' par value. Based on our other available cash and expected operating cash flows and financing, we do not anticipate the potential lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan or to consummate the proposed post-closing self tender offer described in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Additionally, we have received indications from certain lenders that we may borrow against the par value of the securities at competitive rates. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 