Item 1A. Risk Factors Our sales volume and profit margins could be negatively affected by volatile pricing and supply conditions in the market for polyurethane foam caused by recent hurricane damage in the Gulf Coast region. We were notified in early October 2005 by our foam suppliers that prices for polyurethane foam, our largest volume raw material, would increase effective November 7, 2005 in the range of 10% to 37%, depending on the type of foam. Shortly thereafter, we were notified of an additional 10% surcharge to be placed on most types of foam effective October 24, 2005. The cost of polyurethane foam represented approximately 44% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2005. So an increase in foam raw material costs that we are not able to offset could have a significant negative effect on our sales volume and profitability. 11 Foam cost increases of this magnitude are unprecedented in our industry. We believe the increases have both short-term and long-term components. The short-term component of the increase is caused by interruptions to the supply of TDI, a key chemical used in foam manufacturing. These supply problems were caused by recent hurricane damage in the Gulf Coast region, where a number of the chemical manufacturers are located. We believe the TDI problem will be resolved during the next three to six months as manufacturers return to normal operations. The longer-term component of the foam price increase is related to the price of polyol, another key chemical used in the production of foam. The price of polyol is related to natural gas prices, which have increased significantly during the last year. We expect the price of polyol to exert upward pressure on foam prices as long as natural gas prices remain high. Our sales and earnings could decline as a result of our actions to increase sales prices in response to the unusually high raw material cost increases discussed above. We will attempt to offset these raw material cost increases by raising sales prices, changing product specifications, or other cost-saving efforts. As we raise our sales prices, particularly in the consumer market, we could lose sales volume if competitors are willing to offer our customers lower prices on similar products. If we lose sales volume, earnings could decline because of the loss of profitable sales and because our fixed costs might not decline as fast as revenues in the event of the loss of a large customer. In addition, pricing established in certain supply contracts could prevent us from immediately raising sales prices and therefore could result in a decline in profitability. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to fully offset the higher raw material costs. Our earnings could be negatively affected by raw material cost increases other than those related to polyurethane foam as described above. Besides polyurethane foam, our other major raw material categories include nylon mattress covers, vinyl bags, vinyl air cylinders, electronic components for mattresses and corrugated cartons. Raw materials are our single largest cost category in the business, representing approximately 71% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2005. Cost increases in these raw materials could have a significant effect on earnings if we are unable to recover the higher costs through sales price increases or other means. The loss of a key distributor or customer in the Company’s medical or custom products segments could cause a rapid and significant sales decline, which would likely result in a decline in earnings. Many of our medical products are sold through large national distributors in the United States and Canada. We do not maintain long-term distribution agreements with most of these distributors. Instead, we supply them based on purchase orders that are issued by the customers on a daily or weekly basis. These supplier-customer relationships can generally be ended by either party with minimal notice. Consequently, if a large customer or distributor decided to discontinue purchasing our products, our sales and earnings could quickly decline. In addition, all of our consumer foam products are sold through our exclusive distributor, Louisville Bedding Company, under a marketing and distribution agreement that expires in December 2006. The agreement is automatically renewed for successive three-year terms unless either party provides notice of their intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration date. For more information on major customers and information on our business segments, see Notes 16 and 17 in the Notes to Financial Statements, Item 1. “Business - Industry Segment Data - Medical - Distributor Relationships” and “Business - Industry Segment Data - Custom Products.” 12 The Secure I.V. product line is just emerging from development stage and therefore involves greater risks and uncertainties than our more established product lines. We have recently completed design and development of the Secure I.V. safety catheter and have begun sales and marketing efforts for this new product line. At this early stage in the product’s life cycle, we cannot accurately predict the degree of success that Secure I.V. might achieve in the marketplace. Although our product has a unique design that to our knowledge is not available elsewhere in the market, we are competing against larger companies with more experience in the safety catheter market, well-established distribution channels and greater resources than Span-America. Consequently, it could take a significant amount of time and additional investment for Secure I.V. sales and earnings to have a meaningful impact on our operating results. We cannot offer assurance that Secure I.V. sales will become meaningful or that the safety catheter segment will become profitable. See “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” in Management’s Discussion and Financial Analysis and Note 17 in the Notes to Financial Statements for more information on the safety catheter segment. We currently have a sole source contract manufacturer for the Secure I.V. product line. The Secure I.V. product line is presently being manufactured for Span-America by a single unaffiliated company that specializes in contract manufacturing operations. Having a sole-source manufacturer for the Secure I.V. product line creates additional risks for the safety catheter segment that we do not have in our other segments. Since the products are manufactured by an unaffiliated company, we have somewhat less control over product costs, manufacturing efficiency and quality than we do for products manufactured directly by us. These risks are mitigated by the terms of our agreement with our supplier and by procedures put in place to ensure that the products meet necessary quality standards. Our agreement with the contract manufacturer expires in September 2007 but may be terminated by either party with 90 days notice under certain conditions as specified in the agreement. Our source of supply is also subject to risks related to the contract manufacturer, including management or strategic changes and property and casualty risks for an off-site location. If we were required to move our production equipment to another location, it could cause a delay in supplying our products to the market and additional expenses for moving, set-up and re-validation of the production line. Our sales volume could decline as a result of competition from low-cost foreign imports. Within the last two years, we have experienced increased competition in our medical and custom products segments from low-cost foreign imports. In the medical segment, the number of low-cost, imported mattress products has increased in the last two years, but it has not yet had a significant impact on our medical business. We have potentially greater exposure to low-cost imports in our consumer bedding product lines because those products have more commodity-like characteristics than our medical products and our customers, who are generally national retailers, are more likely to change suppliers to buy lower-cost products. Therefore, we could lose significant parts of our consumer bedding business if we are unable to compete effectively with low-cost imports. 13 Our business is subject to the loss of existing sales or slower growth rates due to the impact of competitive products and pricing. All three of our business segments operate in highly competitive market environments. For each of our product lines, there are a number of alternative products in the market with similar features and benefits offered by several competitors, some of whom have greater resources than Span-America. Our medical business could lose sales volume or could have lower sales growth rates as a result of government reimbursement changes in the medical market. A number of our medical products are eligible for reimbursement by Medicare. We have no direct dealings with Medicare reimbursement, but our customers often submit reimbursement requests to Medicare. For example, we might sell therapeutic mattresses to a home health care dealer who in turn rents our mattresses to patients. Medicare reimburses the dealer for some or all of the patient’s rental cost. If Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced, the demand for our medical products that are covered by Medicare could also be reduced. Certain of our medical products and all of our Secure I.V. products are classified as medical devices and are regulated by the FDA. These regulations require, among other things, that medical device manufacturers register with the FDA, list devices manufactured by them, and file various types of reports. In addition, our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturer for the Secure I.V. products are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and must comply with "good manufacturing practices" as required by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations, the existence of the regulations creates the risk of a product recall and related expenses as well as the risk of additional expenses required to meet the regulatory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 