Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Our growth strategy includes the addition of a significant number of new stores each year. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. Our growth will largely depend on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully. We intend to continue to open a significant number of new stores in future years, while remodeling a portion of our existing store base annually. During our 2008 fiscal year, we plan to open 25 new stores, and in subsequent fiscal years, we anticipate opening between 20 to 35 new stores per fiscal year. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. Our proposed expansion also will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. In addition, to the extent that our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our ABL Credit Facility; however, if we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. We may not be able to execute any of these strategies successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to implement these strategies successfully, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to renew or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if one or more of our current leases are terminated prior to the expiration of their stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be harmed. We currently lease 89% of our store locations. Most of our current leases expire at various dates after five-year terms, or ten-year terms in the case of our newer leases, each subject to our option to renew such leases for several additional five-year periods. Our ability to renew any expiring lease or, if such lease cannot be renewed, our ability to lease a suitable alternate location, and our ability to enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms will depend on many factors which are not within our control, such as conditions in the local real estate market, competition for desirable properties and our relationships with current and prospective landlords. If we are unable to renew existing leases or lease suitable alternate locations, or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, our growth and our profitability may be significantly harmed. 7 Our net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate seasonally, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during our second and third quarters. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, we may have to write down our inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices or we may not be able to sell such inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in comparative store sales and results of operations could cause our business performance to decline substantially. Our results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2004, our quarterly comparative store sales growth rates have ranged from 8.9% to (5.1%). Our comparative store sales and results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • fashion trends; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • changes in our merchandise mix; • weather conditions; availability of suitable real estate locations at desirable prices and our ability to locate them; • the timing of promotional events; • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; • our ability to understand and meet consumer preferences; and • actions of competitors. If our future comparative store sales fail to meet expectations, then our cash flow and profitability could decline substantially. You should refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information. Because inventory is both fashion and season sensitive, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionately large effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations because we would be forced to mark down inventory. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the past five fiscal years, a majority of our net sales have occurred during the five-month period from September through January. Unseasonably warm weather during these months could adversely affect our business. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our vendors and if we are unable to purchase suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices, we may be unable to offer a merchandise mix that is attractive to our customers and our sales may be harmed. All of the products that we offer are manufactured by third party vendors. Many of our key vendors limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise and competition among retailers to obtain and sell these goods is intense. In addition, nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers and some of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. Moreover, we typically buy products from our vendors on a purchase order basis. We have no long term purchase contracts with any of our vendors and, therefore, have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us at any time. If our relationships with our vendors are disrupted, we may not be able to acquire the merchandise we require in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise would have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products from our merchandise mix unless and until alternative supply arrangements were made, resulting in deferred or lost sales. 8 Increases in freight costs could result in lower profitability. The cost of delivering our merchandise from the warehouses to the stores could continue to increase if gasoline prices continue to rise. Although we are seeking to have more of our inventory distributed to our stores through our distribution centers, a substantial portion of our inventory is still shipped directly to our stores from our vendors via the more expensive “drop shipment” method, whereby vendors ship items directly to our stores rather than to our distribution centers. Increases in fuel costs will result in costly surcharges added to the cost of drop shipment and reduce our ability to maintain profit margins. Although we purchase most of our inventory from vendors domestically, apparel production is located primarily overseas. Factors which affect overseas production could affect our suppliers and vendors and, in turn, our ability to obtain inventory and the price levels at which they may be obtained. Although such factors apply equally to our competitors, factors that cause an increase in merchandise costs or a decrease in supply could lead to lower sales in the retail industry generally. Such factors include: • political or labor instability in countries where suppliers are located or at foreign and domestic ports which could result in lengthy shipment delays, which if timed ahead of the fall and winter peak selling periods could materially and adversely affect our ability to stock inventory on a timely basis; • political or military conflict involving the apparel producing countries, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products to us and an increase in transportation costs; • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; • disease epidemics and health related concerns, such as the outbreaks of SARS, bird flu and other diseases, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; • the migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced; • fluctuation in our suppliers’ local currency against the dollar, which may increase our cost of goods sold; • imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports; and • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports. Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business would be disrupted severely if our distribution centers were to shut down. During fiscal 2007, central distribution and warehousing services were extended to approximately 70% of our merchandise units through our warehouse/distribution facilities in Burlington, New Jersey, Edgewater, New Jersey, Bristol, Pennsylvania, and San Bernardino, California. During fiscal 2008, we expect this percentage to increase as more merchandise is distributed through our new distribution center in San Bernardino, California which opened in May 2006. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution centers, where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores. If any distribution center were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be disrupted. Although in such circumstances our stores are capable of receiving inventory directly from the supplier via drop shipment, we would incur significantly higher costs and a reduced control of inventory levels during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace any of the distribution centers. Software developed for our management information systems may become obsolete or conflict with the requirements of newer hardware and may cause disruptions in our business. We rely on our existing management information systems, including some software programs that were developed in-house by our employees, in operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandising planning and replenishment, as well as various financial systems. If we fail to update such software to meet the demands of changing business requirements or if we decide to modify or change our hardware and/or operating systems and the software programs that were developed in-house are not compatible with the new hardware or operating systems, disruption to our business may result. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether through a breach of our computer system or otherwise, could severely hurt our business. As part of our normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information in accordance with industry standards. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism and theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving misappropriation, loss or 9 other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to litigation and liability risks, disrupt our operations and harm our business. Disruptions in the Company’s information systems could adversely affect its operating results. The efficient operation of the Company’s business is dependent on its information systems. If an act of God or other event caused our information systems to not function properly, major business disruptions could occur. In particular, the Company relies on its information systems to effectively manage sales, distribution, merchandise planning and allocation functions. The Company’s disaster recovery site is located within 15 miles of the Company’s headquarters. If a disaster impacts both locations, the Company could be affected. The failure of the Company’s information systems to perform as designed could disrupt its business and harm sales and profitability. Acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. The economic downturn that followed the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had an adverse impact on our business. Any further acts of terrorism or other future conflict may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, cause a downturn in the economy generally, cause consumer spending or shopping center traffic to decline or reduce the desire of our guests to make discretionary purchases. Any of the foregoing factors could impact our sales revenue negatively, particularly in the case of any terrorist attack targeting retail space such as a shopping center. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, could impact our business negatively by interfering with our or our vendors’ ability to obtain merchandise from foreign manufacturers. Any future inability to obtain merchandise from our or our vendors’ foreign manufacturers or to substitute other manufacturers, at similar costs and in a timely manner, could adversely affect our business. Our future growth and profitability could be adversely affected if our advertising and marketing programs are not effective in generating sufficient levels of customer awareness and traffic. We rely heavily on print and television advertising to increase consumer awareness of our product offerings and pricing to drive store traffic. In addition, we rely and will increasingly rely on other forms of media advertising. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising and marketing programs. In order for our advertising and marketing programs to be successful, we must: • manage advertising and marketing costs effectively in order to maintain acceptable operating margins and return on our marketing investment; and • convert customer awareness into actual store visits and product purchases. Our planned advertising and marketing expenditures may not result in increased total or comparable net sales or generate sufficient levels of product awareness. We may not be able to manage our advertising and marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. There are a limited number of companies capable of distributing our direct mail advertising at the volume levels we require. If any of these companies cease operations, or if their expenses (e.g., postage, printing and paper costs) increase substantially, then it is likely that our advertising expenses will increase, which will have a negative effect on our business and operating results. We are in the process of transitioning to new leadership team which may cause business interruptions. We may experience unforeseen difficulties as we transition to a new leadership team. Our success is dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers who have been with the Company for many years before the Merger Transaction and new additions to our management team. Although we entered into employment agreements with certain executives, we may not be able to retain all of our executives and other key employees. These executives and other key employees may be hired by our competitors, some of which have considerably more financial resources than we do. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The interests of our controlling stockholders may conflict with yours as a holder of the notes. Funds associated with Bain Capital own over approximately 98.5% of Parent’s basic common stock, with the remainder held by existing members of management. Additionally, management holds options to purchase 7.3% of the basic shares outstanding. The controlling stockholders may have an incentive to increase the value of its investment or cause us to distribute funds at the expense of our financial condition and impact our ability to make payments on the outstanding notes. In addition, the affiliates of Bain Capital have the power to elect a majority of our board of directors and appoint new officers and management and, therefore, effectively control many major decisions regarding our operations. The interests of Bain Capital or its associated funds may conflict with the interests of holders of our outstanding notes. For more information, see “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” 10 Risk Factors Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash.Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, including making payments on the notes. We are highly leveraged. As of June 2, 2007, our total indebtedness was $1.462 billion including $299.7 million of senior notes due 2014, $88.0 million of senior unsecured notes, $884.3 million under the Term Loan, and $159.0 million under the ABL Credit Facility. Estimated cash required to make minimum debt service payments (including principal and interest) for these debt obligations amounts to $108.3 million for the fiscal year ending May 31, 2008, exclusive of the ABL Credit Facility. The ABL Credit Facility has no annual minimum principal payment requirement. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing all or a portion of our debt, including the notes, selling material assets or operations or raising additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and each indenture governing the notes, may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. If we fail to make scheduled payments on our debt or otherwise fail to comply with our covenants, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, • our secured debt lenders could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The indenture governing the senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indenture governing the senior notes and our senior secured credit facilities imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback obligations; • pay certain dividends or make certain distributions on capital stock or repurchase capital stock; • make certain capital expenditures; • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • have our subsidiaries pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in certain transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • guarantee indebtedness; and • create liens. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. If we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as others that may be contained in our senior secured credit facilities from time, to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding, with respect to that debt, to be due and payable immediately. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured debt, the holders of such 11 debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 