Item 1A, Risk Factors as well as risks discussed elsewhere in this report. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to predict or control. In addition, as a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. The cautionary statements referred to in this section also should be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that may be issued by us or persons acting on our behalf. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report might not occur. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Set forth below are certain important risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition. More detailed information regarding certain risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this report. Risks Related to Our Business Our growth strategy includes the addition of a significant number of new stores each year. We may not be able to implement this strategy successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. Our growth will largely depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. We intend to continue to open new stores in future years, while remodeling a portion of our existing store base annually. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other things, the current retail environment, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. Our proposed expansion also will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. In addition, to the extent that our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our ABL Line of Credit; however, if we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. We may not be able to execute any of these strategies successfully, on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to implement these strategies successfully, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to renew or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if one or more of our current leases are terminated prior to the expiration of their stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be negatively impacted. We currently lease approximately 92% of our store locations. Most of our current leases expire at various dates after five or ten-year terms, the majority of which are subject to our option to renew such leases for several additional five-year periods. Our ability to renew any expiring lease or, if such lease cannot be renewed, our ability to lease a suitable alternative location, and our ability to enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms will depend on many factors which are not within our control, such as conditions in the local real estate market, competition for desirable properties and our relationships with current and prospective landlords. If we are unable to renew existing leases or lease suitable alternative locations, or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, our growth and our profitability may be negatively impacted. Our net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate seasonally, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the five-month period from September through January. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not 5 Table of Contents successful in selling our inventory, we may have to write down our inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices or we may not be able to sell such inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in comparative store sales and results of operations could cause our business performance to decline substantially. Our results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of the fiscal year ended May 29, 2005, our quarterly comparative store sales rates have ranged from 8.9% to negative 8.0%. Our comparative store sales and results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • fashion trends; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • changes in our merchandise mix; • weather patterns, including, among other things, changes in year-over-year temperatures; • availability of suitable real estate locations at desirable prices and our ability to locate them; • our ability to effectively manage pricing and markdowns; • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; • our ability to anticipate, understand and meet consumer trends and preferences; • actions of competitors; and • the attractiveness of our inventory and stores to customers. If our future comparative store sales fail to meet expectations, then our cash flow and profitability could decline substantially. Because inventory is both fashion and season sensitive, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could have a disproportionately large effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations because we would be forced to mark down inventory. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, heavy snowfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or facilities located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting our business operations. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the fall or winter season or cool weather during the spring or summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, a majority of our net sales have occurred during the five-month period from September through January. Unseasonably warm weather during these months could adversely affect our business. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our vendors and if we are unable to purchase suitable merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices, we may be unable to offer a merchandise mix that is attractive to our customers and our sales may be harmed. The products that we offer are manufactured by third party vendors. Many of our key vendors limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise resulting in intense competition among retailers to obtain and sell these goods. In addition, nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers and some of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. Moreover, we typically buy products from our vendors on a purchase order basis. We have no long 6 Table of Contents term purchase contracts with any of our vendors and, therefore, have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us at any time. If our relationships with our vendors are disrupted, we may not be able to acquire the merchandise we require in sufficient quantities or on terms acceptable to us. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise would have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products from our merchandise mix unless and until alternative supply arrangements were made, resulting in deferred or lost sales. Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in energy prices Increases in energy costs may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers, as well as reducing the amount of disposable income available to customers and curtailing the use of automobiles and thereby reducing traffic to our stores. A sustained rise in energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have an adverse effect on our performance. General economic conditions and competition affect our business. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the merchandise that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, inflation, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, housing costs, energy costs, commodities pricing, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. In addition, consumer purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income, credit availability and debt levels. A continued or incremental slowdown in the U.S. economy, an uncertain economic outlook or an expanded credit crisis could continue to adversely affect consumer spending habits resulting in lower net sales and profits than expected on a quarterly or annual basis. Consumer confidence is also affected by the domestic and international political situation. Our financial condition and operations could be impacted by changes in government regulations such as taxes, healthcare reform, and other areas. The outbreak or escalation of war, or the occurrence of terrorist acts or other hostilities in or affecting the U.S., could lead to a decrease in spending by consumers. In addition, natural disasters, industrial accidents and acts of war in various parts of the world could have the effect of disrupting supplies and raising prices globally which, in turn, may have adverse effects on the world and U.S. economies and lead to a downturn in consumer confidence and spending. Retailing is highly competitive, and retailers are constantly adjusting their promotional activity and pricing strategies in response to changing conditions. In order to increase traffic and drive consumer spending in the economic environment of the past several years, competitors, including department stores, mass merchants and specialty apparel stores, have been offering brand-name merchandise at substantial markdowns. Moreover, one national mid-market department store chain has recently announced a new business strategy which entails offering branded goods on a larger scale and a departure from in-house brands, coupled with offering products at everyday, regular prices set at up to 40% below traditional department store prices and limited promotional activity. This will result in more competition for branded goods as well as more price competition. If we are unable to continue to meet changes in the competitive environment and to positively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Parties with whom we do business may be subject to insolvency risks which could negatively impact our liquidity. Many economic and other factors are outside of our control, including but not limited to commercial credit availability. Also affected are our vendors who, in many cases depend upon commercial credit to finance their operations. If they are unable to secure commercial financing, our vendors could seek to change the terms on which they sell to us, which could negatively affect our liquidity. In addition, the inability of vendors to access liquidity, or the insolvency of vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise to us. Although we purchase most of our inventory from vendors domestically, apparel production is located primarily overseas. Factors which affect overseas production could affect our suppliers and vendors and, in turn, our ability to obtain inventory and the price levels at which they may be obtained. Although such factors apply equally to our competitors, factors that cause an increase in merchandise costs or a decrease in supply could lead to generally lower sales and gross margins in the retail industry. Such factors include: • political or labor instability in countries where suppliers are located or at foreign and domestic ports which could result in lengthy shipment delays, which if timed ahead of the Fall and Winter peak selling periods could materially and adversely affect our ability to stock inventory on a timely basis; 7 Table of Contents • political or military conflict involving the apparel producing countries, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products to us and an increase in transportation costs; • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; • disease epidemics and health related concerns, such as the outbreaks of SARS, bird flu, swine flu and other diseases, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; • natural disasters and industrial accidents, which could have the effect of curtailing production and disrupting supplies; • increases in labor and production costs in goods-producing countries, which would result in an increase in our inventory costs; • the migration and development of manufacturers, which can affect where our products are or will be produced; • fluctuation in our suppliers’ local currency against the dollar, which may increase our cost of goods sold; and • changes in import duties, taxes, charges, quotas, loss of “most favored nation” trading status with the United States for a particular foreign country and trade restrictions (including the United States imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). Any of the foregoing factors, or a combination thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business would be disrupted severely if either of our primary distribution centers were to shut down. During Fiscal 2011, central distribution services were extended to approximately 86% of our merchandise units through our distribution facilities. Our two primary distribution centers are currently located in Edgewater Park, New Jersey and San Bernardino, California. Most of the merchandise we purchase is shipped directly to our distribution centers, where it is prepared for shipment to the appropriate stores. If either of our current primary distribution centers were to shut down or lose significant capacity for any reason, our operations would likely be disrupted. Although in such circumstances our stores are capable of receiving inventory directly from suppliers via drop shipment, we would incur significantly higher costs and a reduced ability to control inventory levels during the time it takes for us to reopen or replace either of our primary distribution centers. Software used for our management information systems may become obsolete or conflict with the requirements of newer hardware and may cause disruptions in our business. We rely on our existing management information systems, including some software programs that were developed in-house by our employees, in operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandising planning and replenishment, as well as various financial systems. If we fail to update such software to meet the demands of changing business requirements or if we decide to modify or change our hardware and/or operating systems and the software programs that were developed in-house are not compatible with the new hardware or operating systems, disruption to our business may result. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information, whether through a breach of our computer system or otherwise, could severely hurt our business. As part of our normal course of business we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information in accordance with industry standards. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism and theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to litigation and liability risks, disrupt our operations and harm our business. 8 Table of Contents Disruptions in our information systems could adversely affect our operating results. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems. If an act of God or other event caused our information systems to not function properly, major business disruptions could occur. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage sales, distribution, merchandise planning and allocation functions. Our disaster recovery site is located within 15 miles of our Burlington, New Jersey headquarters. If a disaster impacts either location, while it most likely would not fully incapacitate us, our operations could be significantly affected. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed could disrupt our business and harm sales and profitability. Changes in product safety laws may adversely impact our operations. We are subject to regulations by a variety of state and federal regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (CPSIA) imposes new limitations on the permissible amounts of lead and phthalates allowed in children’s products. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing, and product safety particularly with respect to products used by children. In the event that we are unable to timely comply with regulatory changes, including those pursuant to the CPSIA, significant fines or penalties could result, and could adversely affect our operations. Our future growth and profitability could be adversely affected if our advertising and marketing programs are not effective in generating sufficient levels of customer awareness and traffic. We rely on print and television advertising to increase consumer awareness of our product offerings and pricing to drive store traffic. In addition, we rely and will increasingly rely on other forms of media advertising, including, without limitation, social media and e-marketing. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising and marketing programs. In order for our advertising and marketing programs to be successful, we must: • manage advertising and marketing costs effectively in order to maintain acceptable operating margins and return on our marketing investment; and • convert customer awareness into actual store visits and product purchases. Our planned advertising and marketing expenditures may not result in increased total or comparative net sales or generate sufficient levels of product awareness. Further, we may not be able to manage our advertising and marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. Additionally, some of our competitors may have substantially larger marketing budgets, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Use of social media may adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. There has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms and similar devices, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. As laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of theses platforms and devices could adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. Consumers value readily available information concerning retailers and their goods and services and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. Information concerning us may be posted on such platforms and devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. The loss of key personnel may disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. We depend on the contributions of key personnel for our future success. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain executives, we may not be able to retain all of our executive and key employees. These executives and other key employees may be hired by our competitors, some of which have considerably more financial resources than we do. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The interests of our controlling stockholders may conflict with the interests of our noteholders or us. As of March 31, 2012, funds associated with Bain Capital owned approximately 96.9% of the common stock of Burlington Coat Factory Holdings, Inc. (Parent), with the remainder held by existing and former members of management. Additionally, management held options to purchase 8.3% of the outstanding shares of Parent’s common stock as of January 28, 2012. Our controlling stockholders may have an incentive to increase the value of their investment or cause us to distribute funds at the expense of our financial condition and impact our ability to make payments on our outstanding notes. In addition, funds associated with Bain Capital have the power to elect a majority of our board of directors and appoint new officers and management and, therefore, effectively control many major decisions regarding our operations. 9 Table of Contents For further information regarding the ownership interest of, and related party transactions involving, Bain Capital and its associated funds, please see Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters, and Item 13, Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. Changes in legal and accounting rules and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future, including those related to the convergence of GAAP and IFRS. For example, accounting regulatory authorities have indicated that they may begin to require lessees to capitalize operating leases in their financial statements in future periods. If adopted, such a change would require us to record a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities on our balance sheet and make other changes related to the recording and classification of lease related expenses on our statement of operations and cash flows. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations and failure to comply with laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results, involve significant expense and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which in turn could impact our business. Risk Factors Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding notes. As of January 28, 2012, our total indebtedness was $1,613.1 million, including $450.0 million of 10.0% senior notes due 2019, $949.1 million under our New Term Loan Facility, and $190.0 million under the ABL Line of Credit. Estimated cash required to make minimum debt service payments (including principal and interest) for these debt obligations amounts to $111.5 million for the fiscal year ending February 2, 2013, exclusive of minimum interest payments related to the ABL Line of Credit. The ABL Line of Credit agreement has no annual minimum principal payment requirements. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is to some extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing all or a portion of our debt, including the notes, selling material assets or operations or raising additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to successfully carry out any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or be assured that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes, may restrict us from affecting any of these alternatives. If we fail to make scheduled payments on our debt or otherwise fail to comply with our covenants, we would be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, • our secured debt lenders could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The indenture governing our senior notes and the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indenture governing our senior notes and the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities contain covenants that place significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback obligations; • pay certain dividends or make certain distributions on capital stock or repurchase capital stock; 10 Table of Contents • make certain capital expenditures; • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • have our subsidiaries pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in certain transactions with stockholders or affiliates; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • guarantee indebtedness; and • create liens. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. If we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as others that may be contained in the indenture governing our senior notes and the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are unable to refinance these borrowings or are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding, with respect to that debt, to be due and payable immediately. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 