1A. Risk Factors The loss of a key distributor or customer in the Company’s medical or custom products segments could cause a rapid and significant sales decline, which would likely result in a decline in earnings. Many of our medical products are sold through large national distributors in the United States and Canada. We do not maintain long-term distribution agreements with most of these distributors. Instead, we supply them based on purchase orders that are issued by the customers on a daily or weekly basis. These supplier-customer relationships can generally be ended by either party with minimal notice. Consequently, if a large customer or distributor decided to discontinue purchasing our products, our sales and earnings could quickly decline. Our largest customers in the medical segment are Hill-Rom and McKesson Medical Surgical. In addition, all of our consumer foam products are sold through our exclusive distributor, Louisville Bedding Company, under a marketing and distribution agreement that expires in December 2009. The agreement automatically renews for successive three-year terms unless either party provides notice of its intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration date. As we have previously disclosed, our agreement to supply Hill-Rom with private label therapeutic support surfaces will expire in May 2008. Hill-Rom was our largest customer in the medical segment in fiscal 2007 with sales of approximately $10.4 million. We expect to continue to supply products to Hill-Rom under the terms of the agreement until the agreement expiration date. Following the expiration date, we expect to continue supplying products to Hill-Rom on an order-by-order basis. The current agreement provides for mutual exclusivity regarding products that feature non-powered, self-adjusting technology similar to our CFT product. The expiration of the agreement will allow us to sell our proprietary PressureGuard®CFT® therapeutic support surfaces to customers other than Hill-Rom, and Hill-Rom will be able to purchase similar products from other suppliers. At this time due to lack of information from Hill-Rom regarding its expected demand for our products, we are unable to forecast future sales of our products to Hill-Rom. There can be no assurance that sales of our CFT to other customers will offset any decline in sales to Hill-Rom. For more information on major customers and information on our business segments, see the discussion under “Major Customers” on page 9 and Note 17 Major Customers and Note 18 Operations and Industry Segments in the Notes to Financial Statements, Item 1. “Business - Industry Segment Data - Medical - Distributor and Private-Label Manufacturing Relationships” and Item 1. “Business - Industry Segment Data - Custom Products.” 12 Our earnings could be negatively affected by raw material cost increases that we are unable to recover through sales price increases or expense reductions. The cost of polyurethane foam represented approximately 41% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2007. An increase in foam raw material costs that we are not able to offset through sales price increases or expense reductions could have a significant negative effect on our profitability. Besides polyurethane foam, our other major raw material categories include nylon mattress covers, vinyl bags, vinyl air cylinders, electronic components for mattresses and corrugated cartons. Raw materials are our single largest cost category in the business, representing approximately 73% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2007. Cost increases in these raw materials could have a significant adverse effect on earnings if we are unable to recover the higher costs through sales price increases or expense reductions. Our sales volume could decline as a result of competition from low-cost foreign imports. Within the last two years, we have experienced increased competition in our medical and custom products segments from low-cost foreign imports. In the medical segment, the number of low-cost, imported mattress products has increased in the last two years, but it has not yet had a significant impact on our medical business. We believe that we have potentially greater exposure to low-cost imports in our consumer bedding product lines because those products have more commodity-like characteristics than our medical products and our customers, who are generally national retailers, are more likely to change suppliers to buy lower-cost products. Therefore, we could lose significant parts of our consumer bedding business and certain parts of our medical business if we are unable to compete effectively with low-cost imports. Our medical business could lose sales volume or could have lower sales growth rates as a result of government reimbursement changes in the medical market. A number of our medical products are eligible for reimbursement by Medicare. We receive no direct reimbursements from Medicare, but our customers often submit reimbursement requests to Medicare. For example, we sell therapeutic mattresses to home health care dealers who in turn rent our mattresses to patients. Medicare reimburses the dealers for some or all of the patient’s rental cost. If Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced, the demand for our medical products that are covered by Medicare would likely be reduced. Certain of our medical products are classified as medical devices and are regulated by the FDA. These regulations require, among other things, that medical device manufacturers register with the FDA, list devices manufactured by them, and file various types of reports. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and must comply with “good manufacturing practices” as required by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations, the existence of the regulations creates the risk of a product recall and related expenses as well as the risk of additional expenses required to meet the regulatory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 13 Item 