Item 1A. Risk Factors The loss of a key distributor or customer in the Company’s medical or custom products segments could cause a rapid and significant sales decline, which would likely result in a material decline in earnings. Many of our medical products are sold through large national distributors in the United States and Canada. We do not maintain long-term distribution agreements with most of these distributors. Instead, we supply them based on purchase orders that are issued by the customers on a daily or weekly basis. With minimal notice, either party can generally end these supplier-customer relationships. Consequently, if a large customer or distributor decided to discontinue purchasing our products, our sales and earnings could quickly decline. Our largest customer in the medical segment is McKesson Corporation, which represented 22% of our sales in the medical segment during fiscal 2014. Historically, all of our consumer bedding products have been sold through our exclusive distributor, Hollander, under a marketing and distribution agreement that expires in December 2015. The agreement automatically renews for successive three-year terms unless either party provides notice of its intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration date. Sales to Hollander accounted for approximately 16% of our total net sales during fiscal 2014 and 66% of our sales in the custom products segment. We expect new consumer bedding products to begin shipping to a major consumer retailer through a different distributor in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Hollander has orally consented to the separate distribution channel for this retailer. Based on preliminary information from this new distributor, we believe the annualized sales volume for this project will be approximately $4.0 million, with opportunities for future growth. There can be no assurance that sales through the new distributor will be as projected, that the Hollander agreement will be renewed, that Hollander’s consent to the alternative distribution channel will not be withdrawn or that Hollander would not otherwise object to our alternative distribution channel. If we were forced to choose between one of these two distributors in the future, lost our relationship with either distributor or were found to be in violation of our obligations under our distributor agreement with Hollander, there could be a material adverse effect on our sales and earnings. 13 For more information on major customers and information on our business segments, see the discussions under Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Medical – Distributor and Private-Label Manufacturing Relationships,” Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Custom Products,” Item 1. “Business – Major Customers,” Note 18 – Major Customers and Note 19 – Operations and Industry Segments and Geographic Areas in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our sales and earnings performance can be volatile when compared from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year because of the effect of (1) large, infrequently recurring orders of therapeutic support surfaces or medical beds in our medical segment and (2) limited-time or seasonal promotions that occur on an irregular basis in our custom products segment. Within our medical segment, our two largest volume product lines are therapeutic support surfaces and medical beds, which are sold primarily in the long-term care market. Since these products are sometimes purchased as part of capital improvement projects, the purchases can occur in large-volume quantities at irregular intervals. These large orders can cause volatility in our quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year sales and earnings comparisons. Within our custom products segment, we have from time to time participated in several limited time, seasonal promotions of our consumer products. These promotions had the effect of temporarily increasing our sales and earnings during the periods the promotions took place. The promotions are conducted primarily at the sole discretion of our retail customers and therefore may or may not recur in future periods. While we benefit from these promotions when they take place, if similar promotions do not recur in future comparative periods, it creates an unfavorable sales and earnings comparison, which might obscure or overshadow more gradual favorable changes, or less dramatic unfavorable changes, in our ordinary course of business, which we believe more accurately reflects the long-term financial health of our business. Possible downturns in the U.S. economy combined with uncertainties about healthcare reform and tax policy could cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material negative effect on our earnings. The largest volume product lines within our medical segment are our lines of therapeutic support surfaces, which consist of our PressureGuard and Geo-Mattress products as well as our private-label support surfaces, and our lines of M.C. Healthcare beds for the long-term care market. These products are generally considered by us and our customers to be capital purchase items instead of consumable supplies. We believe that purchases of these capital goods are more easily postponed during business downturns than purchases of consumables. Consequently, sales of our support surfaces and bed frames are likely to be more sensitive to general economic weakness than other medical product lines in our business. Also, uncertainties about tax policy and the full implementation of healthcare reform could cause our customers to delay, reduce or cancel capital expenditure plans, which could slow sales particularly within our support surface and bed frame product lines. Therapeutic support surface sales made up 40% of total Company sales during fiscal 2014 and decreased 12% during the year compared with fiscal 2013. Sales of bed frames, which resulted from the M.C. Healthcare acquisition, made up 15% of total Company sales during fiscal 2014. Sales of therapeutic support surfaces and bed frames could decline if economic conditions worsen or if healthcare reform and changes in tax policy result in reduced demand from our customers. 14 In addition, our industrial products are sold primarily to the automotive, packaging and water sports industries, as well as various other manufacturers. Our industrial business has historically been more affected by general economic trends than other Span-America product lines. Therefore an economic downturn is likely to have a greater effect on sales of industrial products than on other product lines in our business. Sales of industrial products could decline if economic conditions worsen. Since many of our operating costs are fixed within a normal monthly range of sales and production activity, sales declines could result in proportionally greater declines in earnings performance. We would attempt to reduce expenses in response to lower sales levels, but we cannot give assurance that we would be able to fully offset the effect of a decline in sales volume. As a result, our business could be materially adversely affected by an economic downturn or weakness in the economy. Downturns in the U.S. and global economies could also have a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of one or more of our key customers or distributors or on several customers and distributors that, in the aggregate, account for a material portion of our sales. Such an adverse effect on our customers or distributors could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our own business and/or financial condition as a result of a loss or material reduction in our sales to such customers or distributors and also, potentially, our inability to collect a material amount of accounts receivable (which accounts receivable are unsecured) owed to us by such customers or distributors if they become unable to pay their debts. If some or all of our medical products were determined to be subject to the medical device excise tax imposed by the Affordable Care Act, there could be a material adverse effect on our net income. Beginning January 1, 2013, the Affordable Care Act imposed a 2.3% excise tax on sales of products defined as “medical devices” by the regulations of the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (the “FDA”) unless the products fit within certain exemptions enumerated in the Affordable Care Act. We believe that all of our medical products except for Selan® skin care products are “medical devices” within the meaning of the FDA regulations. We also believe that our medical products are exempt from the excise tax because our interpretation is that they meet the definition that is commonly referred to as the “Retail Exemption.” The Retail Exemption provision allows an exemption for medical devices of a type that can be purchased by the general public at retail for individual use if (1) the device is regularly available for purchase and use by individual consumers who are not medical professionals, and (2) the device’s design demonstrates that it is not primarily intended for use in a medical institution or office or by medical professionals. While we believe all of our medical products are exempt, the Retail Exemption is based on a facts-and-circumstances inquiry into numerous factors listed in the Act rather than a “bright line” standard. If some or all of our medical products were found to be medical devices subject to the excise tax, we could incur material tax expenses on our sales of medical devices which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Our medical sales excluding Selan totaled $41.1 million in fiscal year 2014 and $35.6 million in the nine-month period from January 2013 (when the tax became effective) through our fiscal year ended in September 2013. If the excise tax were found to apply to all of our medical products (other than Selan products), our additional tax expense would be approximately $945,000 for fiscal year 2014 and approximately $819,000 for the nine-month period from January 2013 through September 2013. Of course, actual future sales levels and the amount of any applicable excise tax would vary. 15 Our acquisition of M.C. Healthcare in December 2011 has introduced several new risks for the Company, including those related to international operations, foreign exchange and impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. M.C. Healthcare’s manufacturing facility is located in Beamsville, Ontario, Canada. We are leasing the current facility under a five-year lease agreement as described elsewhere in this report. As a result, we have been operating in a foreign country under different laws, regulations and customs, all of which have added potential new risks and costs to the Company. While we believe that the M.C. Healthcare acquisition will prove to be successful and improve our financial performance, we cannot guarantee that the acquisition will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Prior to the acquisition, Span-America had no material foreign exchange risk. As a result of the acquisition, we now manufacture and sell products in the U.S. and Canada. Revenues and costs are incurred in both U.S. and Canadian dollars. We are therefore subject to realized and unrealized gains or losses on foreign currency translation activities related to our operations. These foreign exchange gains or losses could have a material effect on our results of operations. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Foreign Currency Exchange and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for more information on foreign exchange risk. The M.C. Healthcare acquisition resulted in additional goodwill of approximately $2.5 million. We evaluate this goodwill at least annually for possible impairment. If the goodwill became impaired and not recoverable, it could result in a material non-cash charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Impairment of Goodwill and Note 6 – Goodwill in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on goodwill impairment. Our medical business could lose sales volume or could have a lower sales growth rate as a result of government reimbursement changes in the medical market. A number of our medical products are eligible for reimbursement by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). We receive no direct reimbursements from CMS, but our customers often submit reimbursement requests to CMS. For example, we sell therapeutic support surfaces to home health care dealers, which in turn rent these products to patients, and CMS reimburses the dealers for some or all of the patients’ rental costs. If the CMS reimbursement rates are reduced, the demand for our medical products that are covered by CMS could decrease, depending on the size of the rate reduction, which could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. 16 Our earnings could be negatively affected by raw material cost increases that we are unable to recover through sales price increases. The cost of polyurethane foam represented approximately 32% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2014. An increase in foam raw material costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers by increasing prices could have a significant negative effect on our profitability. Besides polyurethane foam, our other major raw material categories include therapeutic support surface covers made of various water-proof fabrics, vinyl bags, vinyl air cylinders, electronic components for medical beds and support surfaces, motors, pneumatic pumps, blowers, corrugated boxes, bed actuators, steel and metal stampings. Raw materials are our single largest cost category, representing approximately 72% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2014. Cost increases in these raw materials could have a significant adverse effect on earnings if we are unable to recover the higher costs through sales price increases or operating expense reductions. Changes in applicable laws or increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased raw material or other costs, which would negatively affect our profitability. Our sales volume could decline as a result of competition from low-cost foreign imports. During the last several years, we have experienced increased competition in our medical and custom products segments from low-cost foreign imports. In the medical segment, the number of low-cost, imported mattress products has increased, but it has not yet had a significant impact on our medical business. We believe that we have potentially greater exposure to low-cost imports in our consumer bedding product lines because those products have more commodity-like characteristics than our medical products. Also, our customers in the consumer market, which are usually national retailers, are generally more likely to change suppliers to buy lower-cost products than our customers in the medical market. Therefore, we could lose significant sales volume in our consumer bedding business and some portion of our medical sales volume if we are unable to compete effectively with low-cost imports. Substantially all of our medical products are classified as medical devices and are regulated by the FDA and Health Canada. These regulations require, among other things, that medical device manufacturers register with the FDA and Health Canada, list devices manufactured by them, and file various reports. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and must comply with “good manufacturing practices” as required by the FDA, state and Canadian regulatory authorities. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable regulations, the existence of the regulations creates the risk of a product recall and related expenses as well as the risk of additional expenses required to meet new regulatory requirements. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 