Item 1A. Risk Factors Our exclusive distribution agreement for consumer products was transferred from Louisville Bedding Company to Hollander Home Fashions on May 24, 2013 as a result of the sale of Louisville Bedding’s utility bedding retail business to Hollander. If the combined marketing and distribution efforts of Span-America and Hollander are not as effective as the previous combination of the efforts of Span-America and Louisville Bedding, there could be a material adverse effect on our sales and income, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Louisville Bedding was the exclusive distributor of our consumer foam products from March 1999 through May 2013, when certain assets of their utility bedding business were sold to Hollander. Our distribution agreement with Louisville Bedding was assigned to Hollander on May 24, 2013. The agreement expires in December 2015. In general, we have been, and expect to continue, working with Hollander under the same general terms and conditions as we did with Louisville Bedding. Sales to Louisville Bedding under the agreement were approximately $26.2 million during our 2012 fiscal year and made up approximately 34% of our total sales. Sales to Hollander and Louisville Bedding combined under the agreement were approximately $23.3 million during our 2013 fiscal year and made up approximately 32% of our total sales. Hollander is larger and has greater resources than Louisville Bedding. We believe that the new relationship with Hollander creates opportunities to expand our consumer products sales and earnings. However, we can give no assurance that the combined efforts of Span-America and Hollander will be as successful as the previous combination of the efforts of Span-America and Louisville Bedding. If sales of our consumer products decline as a result of the new arrangement, our earnings and financial condition could be materially negatively affected. 13 If some or all of our medical products were determined to be subject to the medical device excise tax imposed by the Affordable Care Act, there could be a material adverse effect on our net income. Beginning January 1, 2013, the Affordable Care Act imposes a 2.3% excise tax on sales of products defined as “medical devices” by the regulations of the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (the “FDA”) unless the products fit within certain exemptions enumerated in the Affordable Care Act. We believe that all of our medical products except for Selan® skin care products are “medical devices” within the meaning of the FDA regulations. We also believe that our medical products are exempt from the excise tax because our interpretation is that they meet the definition what is commonly referred to as the “Retail Exemption.” The Retail Exemption provision allows an exemption for medical devices of a type that can be purchased by the general public at retail for individual use if (1) the device is regularly available for purchase and use by individual consumers who are not medical professionals, and (2) the device’s design demonstrates that it is not primarily intended for use in a medical institution or office or by medical professionals. While we believe all of our medical products are exempt, the Retail Exemption is based on a facts-and-circumstances inquiry into numerous factors listed in the Act rather than a “bright line” standard. We are not aware of any IRS or court rulings interpreting these regulations, so we cannot be absolutely certain that all of our medical products are exempt. If some or all of our medical products were found to be medical devices subject to the excise tax, we could incur material tax expenses on our sales of medical devices which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Our medical sales excluding Selan have totaled $35.6 million in the nine-month period from January 2013 (when the tax became effective) through our fiscal year ended in September 2013. If the excise tax were found to apply to all of our medical products (other than Selan products), our additional tax expense for this nine-month period would be approximately $819,000, or approximately $1.1 million on an annualized basis. Of course, actual future sales levels and the amount of any applicable excise tax would vary. The loss of a key distributor or customer in the Company’s medical or custom products segments could cause a rapid and significant sales decline, which would likely result in a material decline in earnings. Many of our medical products are sold through large national distributors in the United States and Canada. We do not maintain long-term distribution agreements with most of these distributors. Instead, we supply them based on purchase orders that are issued by the customers on a daily or weekly basis. With minimal notice, either party can generally end these supplier-customer relationships. Consequently, if a large customer or distributor decided to discontinue purchasing our products, our sales and earnings could quickly decline. Our largest customer in the medical segment is McKesson Corporation, which represented 21% of our sales in the medical segment during fiscal 2013. In addition, all of our consumer foam products are sold through our exclusive distributor, Hollander Home Fashions, under a marketing and distribution agreement that expires in December 2015. The agreement automatically renews for successive three-year terms unless either party provides notice of its intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration date. Sales to Hollander Home Fashions accounted for approximately 32% of our total net sales during fiscal 2013 and 88% of our sales in the custom products segment. 14 For more information on major customers and information on our business segments, see the discussions under Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Medical – Distributor and Private-Label Manufacturing Relationships,” Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Custom Products,” Item 1. “Business – Major Customers,” Note 18 – Major Customers and Note 19 – Operations and Industry Segments and Geographic Areas in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Possible downturns in the U.S. economy combined with uncertainties about healthcare reform and tax policy could cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material negative effect on our earnings. The largest volume product lines within our medical segment are our lines of therapeutic support surfaces, which consist of our PressureGuard and Geo-Mattress products as well as our private-label support surfaces. These products are generally considered by us and our customers to be capital purchase items instead of consumable supplies. We believe that purchases of these capital goods are more easily postponed during business downturns than purchases of consumables. Consequently, sales of our support surfaces and bed frames are likely to be more sensitive to general economic weakness than other medical product lines in our business. Also, uncertainties about tax policy and the full implementation of healthcare reform could cause our customers to delay, reduce or cancel capital expenditure plans, which could slow sales particularly within our support surface and bed frame product lines. Therapeutic support surface sales made up 34% of total Company sales during fiscal 2013 and increased 10% during the year compared with fiscal 2012. Sales of bed frames, which resulted from the M.C. Healthcare acquisition, made up 14% of total Company sales during fiscal 2013. Sales of therapeutic support surfaces and bed frames could decline if economic conditions worsen or if healthcare reform and changes in tax policy result in reduced demand from our customers. In addition, our industrial products are sold primarily to the automotive, packaging and water sports industries, as well as various other manufacturers. Our industrial business has historically been more affected by general economic trends than other Span-America product lines. Therefore an economic downturn is likely to have a greater effect on sales of industrial products than on other product lines in our business. Sales of industrial products could decline if economic conditions worsen. Since many of our operating costs are fixed within a normal monthly range of sales and production activity, sales declines could result in proportionally greater declines in earnings performance. We would attempt to reduce expenses in response to lower sales levels, but we cannot give assurance that we would be able to fully offset the effect of a decline in sales volume. As a result, our business could be materially adversely affected by an economic downturn or weakness in the economy. 15 Downturns in the U.S. and global economies could also have a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of one or more of our key customers or distributors or on several customers and distributors that, in the aggregate, account for a material portion of our sales. Such an adverse effect on our customers or distributors could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our own business and/or financial condition as a result of a loss or material reduction in our sales to such customers or distributors and also, potentially, our inability to collect material accounts receivable (which accounts receivable are unsecured) owed to us by such customers or distributors if they become unable to pay their debts. Our acquisition of M.C. Healthcare in December 2011 has introduced several new risks for the Company, including those related to international operations, foreign exchange and impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. The acquisition could precipitate changes in M.C. Healthcare’s relationships with key customers or suppliers, which could have a negative effect on our earnings performance. While we believe that the M.C. Healthcare acquisition will prove to be successful and improve our financial performance, we cannot guarantee that the acquisition will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks inherent with any acquisition such as retaining key employees and the risk that unexpected liabilities may arise from the M.C. Healthcare acquisition. M.C. Healthcare’s manufacturing facility is located in Beamsville, Ontario, Canada. We are leasing the current facility under a five-year lease agreement as described elsewhere in this report. As a result, we have been operating in a foreign country under different laws, regulations and customs, all of which have added potential new risks and costs to the Company. Prior to the acquisition, Span-America had no material foreign exchange risk. As a result of the acquisition, we now manufacture and sell products in the U.S. and Canada. Revenues and costs are incurred in both U.S. and Canadian dollars. We are therefore subject to realized and unrealized gains or losses on foreign currency translation activities related to our operations. These foreign exchange gains or losses could have a material effect on our results of operations. The M.C. Healthcare acquisition resulted in additional goodwill of approximately $2.5 million. We will evaluate this goodwill at least annually for possible impairment. If the goodwill became impaired and not recoverable, it could result in a material non-cash charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our medical business could lose sales volume or could have a lower sales growth rate as a result of government reimbursement changes in the medical market. A number of our medical products are eligible for reimbursement by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMMS”). We receive no direct reimbursements from CMMS, but our customers often submit reimbursement requests to CMMS. For example, we sell therapeutic support surfaces to home health care dealers who in turn rent these products to patients. CMMS reimburses the dealers for some or all of the patients’ rental costs. If the CMMS reimbursement rates are reduced, the demand for our medical products that are covered by CMMS could decrease, depending on the size of the rate reduction, and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. 16 Our earnings could be negatively affected by raw material cost increases that we are unable to recover through sales price increases. The cost of polyurethane foam represented approximately 36% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2013. An increase in foam raw material costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers by increasing prices could have a significant negative effect on our profitability. Besides polyurethane foam, our other major raw material categories include therapeutic support surface covers made of various water-proof fabrics, vinyl bags, vinyl air cylinders, electronic components for beds and support surfaces, motors, pneumatic pumps, blowers, corrugated boxes, bed actuators, steel and metal stampings. Raw materials are our single largest cost category, representing approximately 75% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2013. Cost increases in these raw materials could have a significant adverse effect on earnings if we are unable to recover the higher costs through sales price increases or operating expense reductions. Changes in applicable laws or increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased raw material or other costs, which would negatively affect our profitability. Our sales volume could decline as a result of competition from low-cost foreign imports. During the last several years, we have experienced increased competition in our medical and custom products segments from low-cost foreign imports. In the medical segment, the number of low-cost, imported mattress products has increased, but it has not yet had a significant impact on our medical business. We believe that we have potentially greater exposure to low-cost imports in our consumer bedding product lines because those products have more commodity-like characteristics than our medical products. Also, our customers in the consumer market, which are generally national retailers, are generally more likely to change suppliers to buy lower-cost products than our customers in the medical market. Therefore, we could lose significant sales volume in our consumer bedding business and some portion of our medical sales volume if we are unable to compete effectively with low-cost imports. Certain of our medical products are classified as medical devices and are regulated by the FDA and Health Canada. These regulations require, among other things, that medical device manufacturers register with the FDA and Health Canada, list devices manufactured by them, and file various reports. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and must comply with “good manufacturing practices” as required by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations, the existence of the regulations creates the risk of a product recall and related expenses as well as the risk of additional expenses required to meet new regulatory requirements. 17 Our sales and earnings performance can be volatile when compared from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year because of the effect of limited-time promotions that periodically occur in our custom products segment. During fiscal years 2012 and 2013, we participated in several limited time, seasonal promotions of our consumer products. These promotions had the effect of temporarily increasing our sales and earnings during the periods the promotions took place. The promotions are conducted primarily at the sole discretion of our retail customers and therefore may or may not recur in future periods. While the Company benefits from these promotions when they take place, if similar promotions do not recur in future comparative periods, it creates an unfavorable sales and earnings comparison, which can create the mistaken impression that the Company’s performance has permanently declined. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 