Risk Factors The loss of a key distributor or customer in the Company’s medical or custom products segments could cause a rapid and significant sales decline, which would likely result in a decline in earnings. Many of our medical products are sold through large national distributors in the United States and Canada. We do not maintain long-term distribution agreements with most of these distributors. Instead, we supply them based on purchase orders that are issued by the customers on a daily or weekly basis. These supplier-customer relationships can generally be ended by either party with minimal notice. Consequently, if a large customer or distributor decided to discontinue purchasing our products, our sales and earnings could quickly decline. Our largest customers in the medical segment are Hill-Rom and McKesson Medical Surgical. In addition, all of our consumer foam products are sold through our exclusive distributor, Louisville Bedding Company, under a marketing and distribution agreement that expires in December 2009. The agreement automatically renews for successive three-year terms unless either party provides notice of its intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration date. Our exclusive agreement to supply Hill-Rom with private label therapeutic support surfaces expired in May 2008. Hill-Rom was our largest customer in the medical segment in fiscal 2008 with sales of approximately $7.0 million. We expect to continue to supply products to Hill-Rom under the terms of a new, one-year agreement signed in July 2008. The new agreement automatically renews for successive one-year periods unless it is cancelled by either party with 60 days written notice. The new agreement contains no minimum sales volume commitments and no exclusivity provisions for either party. At this time due to lack of information from Hill-Rom regarding its expected demand for our products, we are unable to accurately forecast future sales to Hill-Rom. However, we estimate that our sales to Hill-Rom in fiscal 2009 will be lower than they were in fiscal 2008. In addition, we expect that growth in sales of our branded medical products could at least partially offset possible declines in sales to Hill-Rom. However, we can give no assurance to that effect. For more information on major customers and information on our business segments, see the discussions under “Major Customers,” Note 16 – Major Customers and Note 17 – Operations and Industry Segments in the Notes to Financial Statements, Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Medical – Distributor and Private-Label Manufacturing Relationships” and Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Custom Products.” The current weakness in the U.S. economy and associated problems in the credit markets could cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a negative effect on our earnings. Our fastest growing products during the last five years have been our lines of therapeutic support surfaces, which consist of our PressureGuard and Geo-Mattress products as well as our private-label support surfaces. Sales of these support surfaces represented 54% of our total net sales in fiscal 2008. These products are generally considered by us and our customers to be capital purchase items instead of consumable supplies. We believe that purchases of these capital goods are more easily postponed during business downturns than purchases of consumables. Consequently, sales of our support surfaces are likely to be more sensitive to general economic weakness than other medical product lines in our business. Also, tight conditions in credit markets could make it more difficult for our customers to obtain financing for capital expenditures, which could slow sales particularly within our support surface product lines. 12 In addition, our industrial products are sold primarily to the water sports, automotive and packaging industries, as well as various other manufacturers. Our industrial business has historically been more affected by general economic trends than other Span-America product lines. Therefore an economic downturn would likely have a greater effect on sales of industrial products than on other product lines in our business. Since many of our operating costs are fixed within a reasonable range of sales and production activity, sales declines could result in proportionally greater declines in earnings performance. We would attempt to reduce expenses in response to lower sales levels, but we cannot give assurance that we would be able to fully offset the effect of a rapid decline in sales volume. Our medical business could lose sales volume or could have a lower sales growth rate as a result of government reimbursement changes in the medical market. A number of our medical products are eligible for reimbursement by Medicare. We receive no direct reimbursements from Medicare, but our customers often submit reimbursement requests to Medicare. For example, we sell therapeutic support surfaces to home health care dealers who in turn rent these products to patients. Medicare reimburses the dealers for some or all of the patient’s rental cost. If Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced, the demand for our medical products that are covered by Medicare could also be reduced, depending on the size of the rate reduction. Medicare has announced a reimbursement rate cut beginning in January 2009 that will affect certain products and services offered by durable medical equipment (DME) dealers. Although our products will not be directly affected by these rate cuts, the reimbursement reductions will likely put downward pressure on DME dealer profitability, which could indirectly affect demand for our products. Our earnings could be negatively affected by raw material cost increases that we are unable to recover through sales price increases or expense reductions. The cost of polyurethane foam represented approximately 42% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2008. An increase in foam raw material costs that we are not able to offset through sales price increases or expense reductions could have a significant negative effect on our profitability. Besides polyurethane foam, our other major raw material categories include nylon mattress covers, vinyl bags, vinyl air cylinders, electronic components for mattresses and corrugated boxes. Raw materials are our single largest cost category in the business, representing approximately 74% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2008. Cost increases in these raw materials could have a significant adverse effect on earnings if we are unable to recover the higher costs through sales price increases or expense reductions. 13 Our sales volume could decline as a result of competition from low-cost foreign imports. Within the last two years, we have experienced increased competition in our medical and custom products segments from low-cost foreign imports. In the medical segment, the number of low-cost, imported mattress products has increased in the last two years, but it has not yet had a significant impact on our medical business. We believe that we have potentially greater exposure to low-cost imports in our consumer bedding product lines because those products have more commodity-like characteristics than our medical products. Also, our customers, who are generally national retailers, are more likely to change suppliers to buy lower-cost products. Therefore, we could lose significant sales volume in our consumer bedding business and smaller parts of our medical sales volume if we are unable to compete effectively with low-cost imports. Certain of our medical products are classified as medical devices and are regulated by the FDA. These regulations require, among other things, that medical device manufacturers register with the FDA, list devices manufactured by them, and file various types of reports. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and must comply with “good manufacturing practices” as required by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations, the existence of the regulations creates the risk of a product recall and related expenses as well as the risk of additional expenses required to meet the regulatory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 