ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, as described at page 1 of this Report under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements.” We believe that the risks described below are the most important factors which may cause our actual future results of operations to differ materially from the results projected in the forward-looking statements. We face intense competition from other banks and financial institutions that could hurt our business We conduct our business operations in Southern California, where the banking business is highly competitive and is dominated by a relatively small number of large multi-state banks with operations and offices covering wide geographical areas. We also compete with other financial service businesses, mutual fund companies, and securities brokerage and investment banking firms that offer competitive banking and financial products and services. The larger banks, and some of those other financial institutions, have greater resources that enable them to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to shift resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. Some of these banks and institutions also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits that could enable them to attract larger clients, and offer financial products and services that we are unable to offer, particularly with respect to attracting loans and deposits. Increased competition may prevent us (i) from achieving increases, or could even result in decreases, in our loan volume or deposit balances, or (ii) from increasing interest rates on loans or reducing interest rates we pay to attract or retain deposits, any of which could cause a decline in our interest income or an increase in our interest expense, that could lead to reductions in our net interest income and earnings. Adverse changes in economic conditions in Southern California could disproportionately harm our business The large majority of our customers and the properties securing a large proportion of our loans are located in Southern California. A worsening of economic conditions or the occurrence of natural disasters in Southern California could harm our business by: • reducing loan demand which, in turn, would lead to reduced net interest margins and net interest income; • affecting the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations, which could result in increases in loan losses and require us to make additional provisions for possible loan losses, thereby reducing our earnings; and • leading to reductions in real property values that, due to our reliance on real property to secure many of our loans, could make it more difficult for us to prevent losses from being incurred on non-performing loans through the sale of such real properties. Additionally, real estate values in California have been increasing rapidly in recent years. In the event that these values are not sustained or other events, such as earthquakes or fires, that may be more prevalent in Southern California than in other geographic areas, cause a decline in real estate values, our collateral coverage for our loans will be reduced and we may suffer increased loan losses. 17 Table of Contents National economic conditions and changes in Federal Reserve Board monetary policies could affect our operating results Our profitability is substantially dependent on our net interest income. Like most banking organizations and other depository institutions, our net interest income is affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including changes in market rates of interest which, in turn, are affected by changes in national economic conditions and national monetary policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board. From 2001 and continuing until June 30, 2004, the Federal Reserve Board followed a policy of reducing interest rates in an effort to stimulate the national economy. Those interest rate reductions, coupled with sluggishness in the economy, led to decreases in our net interest margin during 2003 and made it more difficult to increase earnings. We cannot predict whether the improvement in the economy will continue or whether the Federal Reserve Board’s recent increases in interest rates, will succeed in lessening the downward pressure on net interest margins that was prevalent through most of the last three years. On the other hand, the benefits of increased market rates of interest may be offset, partially or in whole, because those increases will increase the costs of attracting deposits and obtaining borrowings. If we are unable to effectuate commensurate increases in the rates we are able to charge on existing or new loans due to competitive pressures or contractual restrictions on our ability to increase interest rates on existing loans, our net interest margin may suffer despite the increase in interest rates. Changes in economic conditions and increasing rates of interest also could cause prospective borrowers to fail to qualify for our loan products and reduce loan demand, thereby reducing our net interest margins. In addition, if economic conditions were to worsen, that could adversely affect the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations and, therefore, cause an increase in, and require increases in the provisions we make for, possible loan losses. We could incur losses on the loans we make The failure or inability of borrowers to repay their loans is an inherent risk in the banking business. We take a number of measures designed to reduce this risk, including the maintenance of stringent loan underwriting policies and the establishment of reserves for possible loan losses and the requirement that borrowers provide collateral that we could sell in the event they fail to pay their loans. However, the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, the adequacy of our reserves and our ability to sell collateral for amounts sufficient to offset loan losses are affected by a number of factors outside of our control, such as changes in economic conditions, increases in market rates of interest and changes in the condition or value of the collateral securing our loans. As a result, we could incur losses on the loans we make that will hurt our operating results and weaken our financial condition. Government regulations may impair our operations, restrict our growth or increase our operating costs We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The primary objective of these agencies is to protect bank depositors and other customers and not shareholders, whose respective interests will often differ. The regulatory agencies have the legal authority to impose restrictions which they believe are needed to protect depositors and customers of banking institutions, even if such restrictions would adversely affect the ability of the banking institution to expand its business and to pay cash dividends, or result in increases in its costs of doing business or hinder its ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated or banks or financial service organizations that are less regulated. Additionally, due to the complex and technical nature of many of the government regulations to which banking organizations are subject, inadvertent violations of those regulations may occur. In such an event, we would be required to correct or implement measures to prevent a recurrence of such violations. If more serious violations were to occur, the regulatory agencies could limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. The loss of key personnel could hurt our financial performance Our success depends to a great extent on the continued availability of our existing management, including George E. Langley, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Joe Cecala, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, our executive officers provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is partially based. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on these executives. As a result, the loss of the services of either of these officers could harm our ability to implement our business strategy or our future operating results. 18 Table of Contents Risks relating to the Merger with First Community Bancorp As is described in Part I of this Report, on December 14, 2005, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with First Community. That Agreement provides for a merger (the “Merger”) pursuant to which (i) Foothill will be merged with and into First Community, (ii) First Community will be the surviving corporation and Foothill’s separate existence shall terminate, and (iii) Foothill’s stockholders will become shareholders of First Community, receiving a number, ranging from 0.4421 to 0.5685, of a share of First Community common stock for each of their Foothill shares. No Assurance that Expected Benefits of Merger will be Realized. Foothill and First Community entered into the Merger Agreement because of their belief that the Merger would enable them to achieve certain benefits, including cost savings and efficiencies in the operations of the combined company that will result from the Merger. Realization of the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the risks that (i) the integration of the businesses of First Community and Foothill will prove to be more difficult and less efficient and more costly than expected, and (ii) costs savings and efficiencies expected to be realized after integration of the two companies has been completed will not be realized. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading prices of First Community’s common stock after the Merger has been consummated. No Assurance that Merger will be consummated. The completion of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, some of which are outside of our control and, as a result, there is no assurance that the Merger will be consummated. A termination of the Merger, should that occur, would harm our business. Among other things, since the Merger was announced, some of our employees have taken positions with other banking institutions, including some of our competitors. Consequently, our ability to provide the level of service that we had previously provided to our customers would be compromised and our competitive position in our markets could be weakened if the Merger were to be terminated. Additionally, some of our customers have taken their business to other banking institutions since the Merger was announced and, if the Merger were to be terminated, it would be difficult to get those customers to resume doing business with us. Finally, we believe that any failure of the Merger to be consummated, even if that failure was not caused by us, would be looked upon negatively by investors in the stock market and, for that reason, could harm the trading prices of our shares. No Assurance that our Dividend Policy will not Change In accordance with our Board of Directors’ dividend policy, we have paid a regular quarterly cash dividend since September 1999 and have made periodic repurchases of our outstanding shares. If the Merger with First Community is consummated in the second quarter of 2006, as is expected, we will not pay any further cash dividends before the Merger is consummated. Even if the Merger were to be terminated, there can be no assurance that the amount or frequency of cash dividends will not have to be reduced or that cash dividends will not have to be suspended, as this will depend on such factors as future economic and market conditions, our future financial performance and financial condition and our needs for capital to support future growth or to meet regulatory capital requirements. 