Item 1A. Risk Factors The loss of a key distributor or customer in the Company’s medical or custom products segments could cause a rapid and significant sales decline, which would likely result in a material decline in earnings. Many of our medical products are sold through large national distributors in the United States and Canada. We do not maintain long-term distribution agreements with most of these distributors. Instead, we supply them based on purchase orders that are issued by the customers on a daily or weekly basis. These supplier-customer relationships can generally be ended by either party with minimal notice. Consequently, if a large customer or distributor decid ed to discontinue purchasing our products, our sales and earnings could quickly decline. Our largest customers in the medical segment are Cardinal Health and McKesson Medical-Surgical, which each accounted for 14% of sales in the medical segment in fiscal 2010. In addition, all of our consumer foam products are sold through our exclusive distributor, Louisville Bedding Company, under a marketing and distribution agreement that expires in December 2012. The agreement automatically renews for successive three-year terms unless either party provides notice of its intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration date. 11 For more information on major customers and information on our business segments, see the discussions under Item 1. “Business – Major Customers,” Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Medical – Distributor and Private-Label Manufacturing Relationships” and Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Custom Products,” Note 17 – Major Customers and Note 18 – Operations and Industry Segments in the Notes to Financial Statements. The current weakness in the U.S. economy and associated problems in the credit markets could cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material negative effect on our earnings. Our fastest growing products during the last five years have been our lines of therapeutic support surfaces, which consist of our PressureGuard and Geo-Mattress products as well as our private-label support surfaces. Sales of these support surfaces represented 42% of our total net sales in fiscal 2010. These products are generally considered by us and our customers to be capital purchase items instead of consumable supplies. We believe that purchases of these capital goods are more easily postponed during business downturns th an purchases of consumables. Consequently, sales of our support surfaces are likely to be more sensitive to general economic weakness than other medical product lines in our business. Also, tight conditions in credit markets could make it more difficult for our customers to obtain financing for capital expenditures, which could slow sales particularly within our support surface product lines. Therapeutic support surface sales decreased 13% during fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2009. Sales of our therapeutic support surfaces may continue to decline if the economy remains weak. In addition, our industrial products are sold primarily to the automotive, packaging and water sports industries, as well as various other manufacturers. Our industrial business has historically been more affected by general economic trends than other Span-America product lines. Therefore an economic downturn is likely to have a greater effect on sales of industrial products than on other product lines in our business. Sales of industrial products in fiscal year 2010 exceeded those of fiscal 2009, however, sales of industrial products could decline if the economy remains weak. Since many of our operating costs are fixed within a reasonable range of sales and production activity, sales declines could result in proportionally greater declines in earnings performance. We would attempt to reduce expenses in response to lower sales levels, but we cannot give assurance that we would be able to fully offset the effect of a decline in sales volume, so our business could be materially adversely affected by an economic downturn or continuing weakness of the national economy. Our medical business could lose sales volume or could have a lower sales growth rate as a result of government reimbursement changes in the medical market. A number of our medical products are eligible for reimbursement by Medicare. We receive no direct reimbursements from Medicare, but our customers often submit reimbursement requests to Medicare. For example, we sell therapeutic support surfaces to home health care dealers who in turn rent these products to patients. Medicare reimburses the dealers for some or all of the patient’s rental cost. If Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced, the demand for our medical products that are covered by Medicare could decrease, depending on the size of th e rate reduction and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. 12 Our earnings could be negatively affected by raw material cost increases that we are unable to recover through sales price increases. The cost of polyurethane foam represented approximately 42% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2010. An increase in foam raw material costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers by increasing prices could have a significant negative effect on our profitability. Besides polyurethane foam, our other major raw material categories include mattress covers made of various water proof fabrics, vinyl bags, vinyl air cylinders, electronic components for mattresses and corrugated boxes. Raw materials are our single largest cos t category, representing approximately 73% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2010. Cost increases in these raw materials could have a significant adverse effect on earnings if we are unable to recover the higher costs through sales price increases or operating expense reductions. Changes in applicable laws or increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased raw material or other costs, which would negatively affect our profitability. Our sales volume could decline as a result of competition from low-cost foreign imports. During the last two years, we have experienced increased competition in our medical and custom products segments from low-cost foreign imports. In the medical segment, the number of low-cost, imported mattress products has increased in the last two years, but it has not yet had a significant impact on our medical business. We believe that we have potentially greater exposure to low-cost imports in our consumer bedding product lines because those products have more commodity-like characteristics than our medical products. Also, our customers, which are generally national retailers, ar e more likely to change suppliers to buy lower-cost products. Therefore, we could lose significant sales volume in our consumer bedding business and some portion of our medical sales volume if we are unable to compete effectively with low-cost imports. Certain of our medical products are classified as medical devices and are regulated by the FDA. These regulations require, among other things, that medical device manufacturers register with the FDA, list devices manufactured by them, and file various reports. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and must comply with “good manufacturing practices” as required by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations, the existence of the regulations creates the risk of a product recall and related expenses as well as the risk of additional expenses required to meet the regul atory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 13 