Item 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Investors and prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form l0-K contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and anticipate future losses. We have reported losses in each of the last several fiscal years and have an accumulated deficit of $86.7 million as of December 29, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will report net income in any future period. We have only limited working capital and limited access to financing. While STAAR has experienced increased sales in recent periods, our cash requirements continue to exceed the level of cash generated by operations and we expect to continue to seek additional resources to support and expand our business, such as debt or equity financing. Because of our history of losses and negative cash flows, our ability to obtain adequate financing on satisfactory terms is limited. Our ability to raise financing through sales of equity securities depends on general market conditions and the demand for STAAR’s common stock. We may be unable to raise adequate capital through sales of equity securities, and if our stock has a low market price at the time of such 12 Table of Contents sales our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. An inability to secure additional financing could limit the expansion of our business and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. Our history of losses limits our access to credit and increases the risk of a default on our loan agreements. Under its U.S. and international bank credit facilities and lease lines of credit, STAAR had $3 million in outstanding indebtedness and $1.4 million available for borrowing as of December 29, 2006. The credit facilities are subject to various financial covenants, and if our losses continue we risk defaulting on the terms of our credit facilities. Our limited borrowing capacity could cause a shortfall in working capital or prevent us from making expenditures to expand or enhance our business. To the extent we borrow under our credit facilities, a subsequent default could cause our obligations to be accelerated, make further borrowing difficult and jeopardize our ability to continue operations. We may be subject to limitations in fully utilizing our recorded tax loss carryforwards. We have accumulated approximately $37.4 million of tax carryfowards to be used in future periods. If we were to experience a significant change in ownership, Internal Revenue Code Section 382 may restrict the future utilization of these tax loss carry forwards. FDA compliance issues have harmed our reputation, and we expect to devote significant resources to maintaining compliance in the future. The Office of Compliance of the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health regularly inspects STAAR’s facilities to determine whether we are in compliance with the FDA Quality System Regulations relating to such things as manufacturing practices, validation, testing, quality control, product labeling and complaint handling, and in compliance with FDA Medical Device Reporting regulations. Based on the results of the FDA inspections of STAAR’s Monrovia, California facilities in 2005 and 2006, STAAR believes that it is substantially in compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations and Medical Device Reporting regulations. However, between December 29, 2003 and July 5, 2005 we received Warning Letters and other correspondence indicating that the FDA found STAAR’s Monrovia, California facility in violation of applicable regulations, warning of possible enforcement action and suspending approval of new implantable devices. The FDA’s findings of compliance deficiencies during that period harmed our reputation in the ophthalmic industry, affected our product sales and delayed FDA approval of the ICL. STAAR’s ability to continue its U.S. business depends on the continuous improvement of its quality systems and its compliance with FDA regulations. Accordingly, for the foreseeable future STAAR’s management expects its strategy to include devoting significant resources and attention to those efforts. STAAR cannot ensure that its efforts will always be successful, and any failure to demonstrate substantial compliance with FDA regulations can result in enforcement actions that terminate, suspend or severely restrict our ability to continue manufacturing and selling medical devices. Please see the related risks discussed under the headings “We are subject to extensive government regulation, which increases our costs and could prevent us from selling our products” and “We are subject to federal and state regulatory investigations.” Our strategy to restore profitability in the near term relies on successfully penetrating the U.S. refractive market. While products to treat cataracts continue to account for the majority of our revenue, we believe that increasing sales of our Visian® ICL refractive products, especially in the U.S., present the best near term opportunity for a return to profitability. The FDA approved the Visian ICL for treatment of myopia on December 22, 2005. Selling and marketing the ICL has presented a challenge to our sales and marketing staff and to our independent manufacturers’ representatives. In the United States patients who might benefit from the ICL have already been exposed to a great deal of advertising and publicity about laser refractive surgery, but have little if any awareness of the ICL. In addition, established refractive surgeons frequently have large and well developed practices that are oriented entirely toward the delivery of laser procedures. In countries where the ICL has been approved to date, our 13 Table of Contents sales have grown steadily but slowly, and the U.S. appears to be following this pattern. A surgeon interested in implanting the ICL must first schedule training and certification and invest time in the training process. While STAAR has sufficient resources to make training available to qualified surgeons with minimal delay, the need to undergo training continues to limit the pace at which interested surgeons can begin providing the ICL to their patients. STAAR employs advertising and promotion targeted to potential patients through providers, but has limited resources for these purposes. Failure to successfully market the ICL in the United States will delay and possibly prevent our planned growth and return to profitability. Our core domestic business has suffered declining sales, which sales of new products have only begun to offset. STAAR pioneered the foldable IOL for use in cataract surgery, and the foldable silicone IOL remains our largest source of sales. Since we introduced the product, however, competitors have introduced IOLs employing a variety of designs and materials. Over the years these products have gradually taken a larger share of the IOL market, while the market share for STAAR silicone IOLs has decreased. In particular, many surgeons now choose lenses made of acrylic material rather than silicone for their typical patients. In addition, our competitors have begun to offer multifocal or accommodating lenses that claim to reduce the need for cataract patients to use reading glasses; the market for these “presbyopic” lenses is expected to grow as a segment of the cataract market. Our newer line of IOLs made of our proprietary biocompatible Collamer® material have helped reverse the trend of declining domestic cataract product sales, but it is too early to assess the potential for sustained growth and whether we can recover a significant amount of the market share lost over the last several years. Strikes, slow-downs or other job actions by doctors can reduce sales of cataract-related products. In many countries where STAAR sells its products, doctors, including ophthalmologists, are employees of the government, government-sponsored enterprises or large health maintenance organizations. In recent years employed doctors who object to salary limitations, working rules, reimbursement policies or other conditions have sought redress through strikes, slow-downs and other job actions. These actions often result in the deferral of non-essential procedures, such as cataract surgeries, which can affect sales of our products. For example, in fiscal year 2006, strikes and slow-downs by doctors in Germany were partly responsible for a drop in sales by our wholly owned subsidiary Domilens GmbH, which distributes ophthalmic products in Germany. Such problems could occur again in Germany or other regions and, depending on the importance of the affected region to STAAR’s business, the length of the action and its pervasiveness, job actions by doctors can materially reduce our sales revenue and earnings. Because state-sponsored healthcare systems, health maintenance organizations and insurance reimbursement usually do not cover refractive surgery, job actions by doctors are unlikely to affect ICL sales. Our sales are subject to significant seasonal variation. We generally experience lower sales during the third quarter due to the effect of summer vacations on elective procedures. In particular, because sales activity in Europe drops dramatically in July and August, and European sales have recently accounted for a greater proportion of our total sales, this seasonal variation in our results has become even more pronounced. We depend on independent manufacturers’ representatives. In an effort to manage costs and bring our products to a wider market, we have entered into long-term agreements with independent regional manufacturers’ representatives, who introduce our products to eye surgeons and provide the training needed to begin using some of our products. Under our agreements with these representatives, each receives a commission on all of our sales within a specified region, including sales on products we sell into their territories without their assistance. Because they are independent contractors, we have a limited ability to manage these representatives or their employees. In addition, a representative may represent manufacturers other than STAAR, although not in competing products. STAAR’s strategy for growth involves the marketing of innovative products like the ICL, Collamer IOLs, Toric IOLs and the AquaFlow Device. We have relied on the 14 Table of Contents independent representatives to implement the marketing of these products and to sustain the market for our more established products. Because our independent representatives generally have little experience dealing with surgeons who specialize in refractive procedures, we have faced greater challenges in developing the domestic market for the ICL. If our independent manufacturers’ representatives do not devote sufficient resources to marketing our products, or if they lack the skills or resources to market our new products, our new products will fail to reach their full sales potential and sales of our established products could decline. Product recalls have been costly and may be so in the future. Medical devices must be manufactured to the highest standards and tolerances, and often incorporate newly developed technology. Despite all efforts to achieve the highest level of quality control and advance testing, from time to time defects or technical flaws in our products may not come to light until after the products are sold or consigned. In those circumstances, we have previously made voluntary recalls of our products. We may also be subject to recalls initiated by manufacturers of products we distribute. In February 2006, our German subsidiary recalled all lots of a balanced salt solution it distributes due to the manufacturer’s recall for possible endotoxin content. In 2005, we recalled one lot of phaco tubing manufactured by a third party, due to incorrect labeling, and we recalled one lot of STAARVISC, also manufactured by a third party, due to a potential sterility breach of the packaging of the cannula that is packaged with the STAARVISC. The last recall of STAAR products took place during 2004, when we initiated several voluntary recalls of STAAR-manufactured product including 33 lots of IOL cartridges, three lots of injectors, and 529 lenses, and in February 2004, in an action considered a recall but with no requirement for product to be returned to us, we issued a letter to healthcare professionals advising them of the potential for a change in manifest refraction over time in rare cases involving the single-piece Collamer IOL. While the majority of the direct costs associated with the recalls have not been material, we believe recalls have harmed our reputation and adversely affected our product sales, although the impact cannot be quantified. Similar recalls could take place again. Courts or regulators can also impose mandatory recalls on us, even if we believe our products are safe and effective. Recalls can result in lost sales of the recalled products themselves, and can result in further lost sales while replacement products are manufactured, especially if the replacements must be redesigned. If recalled products have already been implanted, we may bear some or all of the cost of corrective surgery. Recalls may also damage our professional reputation and the reputation of our products. The inconvenience caused by recalls and related interruptions in supply, and the damage to our reputation, could cause some professionals to discontinue using our products. We could experience losses due to product liability claims. We have been subject to product liability claims in the past and continue to be so. As part of our risk management policy, we have obtained third-party product liability insurance coverage. In recent periods this insurance has become more expensive and difficult to procure. Product liability claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a loss in excess of our deductible. A product liability claim in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies have retentions or deductibles that provide that we will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of those retentions or deductibles. To the extent that any losses are below these retentions or deductibles, we will be responsible for paying these losses. The payment of retentions or deductibles for a significant amount of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any product liability claim would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm our reputation with customers. We cannot assure you that we will not have product liability claims in the future or that such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business. We compete with much larger companies. Our competitors, including Alcon, Advanced Medical Optics, and Bausch & Lomb have much greater financial resources than we do and some of them have large international markets for a full suite of ophthalmic 15 Table of Contents products. Their greater resources for research, development and marketing, and their greater capacity to offer comprehensive products and equipment to providers, make it difficult for us to compete. We have lost significant market share to some of our competitors. Most of our products have single-site manufacturing approvals, exposing us to risks of business interruption. We manufacture all of our products either at our facilities in California or at our facility in Switzerland. Most of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one of these sites. Before we can use a second manufacturing site for an implantable device we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities. Because this process is expensive we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. If a natural disaster, fire, or other serious business interruption struck one of our manufacturing facilities, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product. We could lose customers to competitors, thereby reducing sales, profitability and market share. The global nature of our business may result in fluctuations and declines in our sales and profits. Our products are sold in approximately 50 countries. Sales from international operations make up a significant portion of our total sales. For the year ended December 29, 2006, sales from international operations were 60% of total sales. The results of operations and the financial position of certain of our offshore operations are reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into United States dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to translation risk. In addition, we are exposed to transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our sales are received. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Euro, the Swiss Franc, and the Australian dollar. The exchange rates between these and other local currencies and the United States dollar may fluctuate substantially. We have not attempted to offset our exposure to these risks by investing in derivatives or engaging in other hedging transactions. Fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar against other currencies have not had a material adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability in the past. Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and local customs vary widely among the countries in which we sell our products. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including lower profit margins, less stringent protection of intellectual property and economic, political and social uncertainty in some countries, especially in emerging markets. Our continued success as a global company depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement policies and strategies that are effective in anticipating and managing these and other risks in the countries where we do business. These and other risks may have a material adverse effect on our operations in any particular country and on our business as a whole. We price some of our products in U.S. dollars, and as a result changes in exchange rates can make our products more expensive in some offshore markets and reduce our sales. Inflation in emerging markets also makes our products more expensive there and increases the credit risks to which we are exposed. The success of our international operations depends on our successfully managing our foreign subsidiaries. We conduct most of our international business through wholly owned subsidiaries. Managing distant subsidiaries and fully integrating them into STAAR’s business is challenging. While STAAR seeks to fully integrate its foreign subsidiaries into its operations, direct supervision of every aspect of their operations is impossible, and as a result STAAR relies on its local managers and staff. Cultural factors and language differences can result in misunderstandings among internationally dispersed personnel. In early 2007, STAAR learned that the president of its German sales subsidiary, Domilens, had misappropriated corporate assets. While STAAR has implemented remedial efforts to reinforce its Code of Ethics and increase its oversight of Domilens, the risk that unauthorized conduct may go undetected will always be greater in foreign subsidiaries. Some countries may also have laws or cultural factors that make it difficult to impose uniform standards and practices. For example, while STAAR’s Code of Ethics requires all employees to certify they are not aware of code violations by others, German legal counsel has advised STAAR that in Germany it cannot legally compel ordinary employees (i.e., non-supervisors) to notify STAAR of breaches by others. STAAR believes the absence of such a requirement in its Code 16 Table of Contents of Ethics for German employees is a risk inherent to doing business in Germany that may be mitigated, but not entirely eliminated, by other controls. We obtain some of the components of our products from a single source, and an interruption in the supply of those components could reduce our sales. We obtain some of the components for our products from a single source. For example, only one supplier produces our viscoelastic product. Although we believe we could find alternate supplies for any of these components, the loss or interruption of any of these suppliers could increase costs, reducing our sales and profitability, or harm our customer relations by delaying product deliveries. Even when substitute suppliers are available, the need to certify regulatory compliance and quality standards of substitute suppliers could cause significant delays in production and a material reduction in our sales revenue. We try to mitigate this risk by stockpiling raw materials when practical and identifying secondary suppliers, but the risk cannot be entirely eliminated. For example, the failure of one of our suppliers could be the result of an unforeseen industry-wide problem, or the failure of our supplier could create an industry-wide shortage affecting secondary suppliers as well. Our activities involve hazardous materials and emissions and may subject us to environmental liability. Our manufacturing, research and development practices involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we have operations governing the use, manufacturing, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety and environmental procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Remedial environmental actions could require us to incur substantial unexpected costs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we were involved in a major environmental accident or found to be in substantial non-compliance with applicable environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. We risk losses through litigation. From time to time we are party to various claims and legal proceedings arising out of the normal course of our business. These claims and legal proceedings relate to contractual rights and obligations, employment matters, and claims of product liability. While we do not believe that any of the claims known to us is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, new claims or unexpected results of existing claims could lead to significant financial harm. We depend on key employees. We depend on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees. The loss of a key employee could hurt our business. We could be particularly hurt if any key employee or employees went to work for competitors. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, train and motivate other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect future results. We have licensed our technology to our joint venture company and have granted rights to the partners that could be exercised in the event of a change in control of STAAR. We have granted to the Canon Staar joint venture, an irrevocable, exclusive license to make and sell products using our technology in Japan. We have also granted the joint venture an irrevocable, exclusive license to make products using our technology in China and to sell in China and Japan the products made in China. In addition, we have granted Canon Staar an irrevocable, non-exclusive license to sell products using our technology in the rest of the world. Subject to the unanimous approval of the Board of Directors of the joint venture, such licenses may allow the Canon Staar joint venture to sell products in the rest of the world directly or through distributors. If a party to the Canon Staar joint venture undergoes a merger, sale of substantially all of its assets or changes its management, any of the other joint venture partners has the right to acquire that party’s interest in the joint 17 Table of Contents venture at book value. The terms of the principal agreements governing the joint venture are described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Business — Canon Staar Joint Venture.” Changes in accounting standards could affect our financial results. The accounting rules applicable to public companies like STAAR are subject to frequent revision. Future changes in accounting standards could require us to change the way we calculate income, expense or balance sheet data, resulting in significant changes in our reported results of operation or financial condition. We are subject to international taxation laws that could affect our financial results. STAAR conducts international operations through its subsidiaries. Tax laws affecting international operations are highly complex and subject to change. STAAR’s payment of income tax in the different countries where it operates depends in part on internal settlement prices and administrative charges among STAAR and its subsidiaries. These arrangements require judgments by STAAR and are subject to risk that tax authorities will disagree with those judgments and impose additional taxes, penalties or interest on STAAR. STAAR engages in dialogue with tax authorities in some of the countries where it operates to mitigate this risk, but it cannot be entirely eliminated. In addition, transactions that STAAR has arranged in light of current tax rules could have unforeseeable negative consequences if tax rules change. If we suffer loss to our facilities due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed. We depend on the continuing operation of all of our manufacturing facilities in California and Switzerland, which have little redundancy or overlap among their activities. Our facilities are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, our California facilities are in areas where earthquakes could cause catastrophic loss. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted. We are significantly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the world and between our personnel and our subsidiaries, customers, and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such security breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Risks Related to the Ophthalmic Products Industry If we fail to keep pace with advances in our industry or fail to persuade physicians to adopt the new products we introduce, customers may not buy our products and our sales may decline. Constant development of new technologies and techniques, frequent new product introductions and strong price competition characterize the ophthalmic industry. The first company to introduce a new product or technique to market usually gains a significant competitive advantage. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop products to treat diseases and disorders of the eye that are more effective, safer, or incorporate emerging technologies better than our competitors’ products. Sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if one of our competitors introduces a substantially superior product, or if we announce a new product of our own. Similarly, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development or if we focus on technologies that do not lead to better products, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products. 18 Table of Contents In addition, we must manufacture these products economically and market them successfully by persuading a sufficient number of eye care professionals to use them. For example, glaucoma requires ongoing treatment over a long period of time; thus, many doctors are reluctant to switch a patient to a new treatment if the patient’s current treatment for glaucoma remains effective. This has been a challenge in selling our AquaFlow Device. Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. We spent 12.6% of our sales on research and development during the year ended December 29, 2006, and we expect to spend approximately 10% for this purpose in future periods. Development of new implantable technology, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, is expensive and typically takes from three to seven years. Because of the complexities and uncertainties of ophthalmic research and development, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market the products successfully. It is possible that few or none of the products currently under development will become commercially successful. Changes in reimbursement for our products by third-party payors could reduce sales of our products or make them less profitable. Many of our products, in particular IOLs and products related to the treatment of glaucoma, are used in procedures that are typically covered by health insurance, HMO plans, Medicare, Medicaid, or other governmental sponsored programs in the U.S. and Europe. Third party payors in both government and the private sector continue to seek to manage costs by restricting the types of procedures they reimburse to those viewed as most cost-effective and by capping or reducing reimbursement rates. Whether they limit reimbursement prices for our products and or limit the surgical fees for a procedure that uses our products, these policies can reduce the sales volume of our reimbursed products, their selling prices or both. In some countries government agencies control costs by limiting the number of surgical procedures they will reimburse. For example, a recent reduction in the number of authorized cataract procedures in Germany has affected the sales of our German subsidiary, Domilens. Similar changes could occur in our other markets. The U.S. Congress has considered legislative proposals that would significantly change the system of public and private health care reimbursement, and will likely consider such changes again in the future. We are not able to predict whether new legislation or changes in regulations will take effect at the state or federal level, but if enacted these changes could have a significant effect on our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which increases our costs and could prevent us from selling our products. STAAR is regulated by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we manufacture or distribute products. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to medical devices, including their pre-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. We are also subject to government regulation over the prices we charge and the rebates we offer to customers. Complying with government regulation substantially increases the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. In the United States, we must obtain approval from the FDA for each product that we market. Competing in the ophthalmic products industry requires us to continuously introduce new or improved products and processes, and to submit these to the FDA for approval. Obtaining FDA approval is a long and expensive process, and approval is never certain. In addition, our operations in the United States are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA. An unfavorable outcome in an FDA inspection may result in the FDA ordering changes in our business practices or taking other enforcement action, which could be costly and severely harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Products distributed outside of the United States are also subject to government regulation, which may be equally or more demanding. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. If a regulatory authority delays approval of a potentially significant product, the potential sales of the product and its value to us can be substantially reduced. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses of the product, or may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute the product, or may require post- marketing studies. If we cannot obtain regulatory approval of our new products, or if the approval is too narrow, we will not be able to market these products, which would eliminate or reduce our potential sales and earnings. Regulatory investigations and allegations, whether or not they lead to enforcement action, can materially harm our business and its reputation. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA or other regulators can result in civil and criminal fines, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action can also generate adverse publicity and require us to divert substantial resources from more productive uses in our business. Enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products and could materially harm our business From time to time STAAR is subject to formal and informal inquiries by regulatory agencies, which may or may not lead to investigations or enforcement actions. Even when an inquiry results in no evidence of wrongdoing or is inconclusive, the agency generally is not required to notify STAAR of its findings and may not inform STAAR that the inquiry has been terminated. STAAR maintains a hotline for employees to anonymously report any violation of laws, regulations or company policies, and investigates any allegation of improper conduct. Nevertheless, present or former employees may elect to bring complaints to regulators and enforcement agencies. The relevant agency will generally be obligated to investigate such complaints to assess their validity and obtain evidence of any violation that may have occurred. Even without a finding of misconduct, negative publicity about investigations or allegations of misconduct could harm our reputation with customers and the market for our common stock. We depend on proprietary technologies, but may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. We have numerous patents and pending patent applications. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrecy laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal measures afford limited protection and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending patent application held by us will result in an issued patent or that if patents are issued to us, the patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered by patents in our industry may involve complex legal issues that are not fully resolved. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our sales; to negotiate a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or to redesign our products to avoid 20 Table of Contents infringing the intellectual property rights of a third party, which may be costly and time-consuming or impossible to accomplish. We may not successfully develop and launch replacements for our products that lose patent protection. Most of our products are covered by patents that give us a degree of market exclusivity during the term of the patent. We have also earned revenue in the past by licensing some of our patented technology to other ophthalmic companies. The legal life of a patent in the U.S. is 20 years from application. Patents covering our products will expire from this year through the next 20 years. Upon patent expiration, our competitors may introduce products using the same technology. As a result of this possible increase in competition, we may need to charge a lower price in order to maintain sales of our products, which could make these products less profitable. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our sales and profits with respect to those products could decline significantly. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products before these and other patents expire. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our Certificate of Incorporation could delay or prevent an acquisition or sale of our company. Our Certificate of Incorporation empowers the Board of Directors to establish and issue a class of preferred stock, and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock. These provisions give the Board of Directors the ability to deter, discourage or make more difficult a change in control of our company, even if such a change in control would be in the interest of a significant number of our stockholders or if such a change in control would provide our stockholders with a substantial premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. Our bylaws contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including the following: • stockholders have limited ability to remove directors; • stockholders cannot act by written consent; • stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock or preventing changes in our management. Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price. Our Board of Directors could issue additional shares of common or preferred stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes without stockholder approval. In addition, the Board of Directors could designate and sell a class of preferred stock with preferential rights over the common stock with respect to dividends or other distributions. Sales of common or preferred stock could dilute the interest of existing stockholders and reduce the market price of our common stock. Even in the absence of such sales, the perception among investors that additional sales of equity securities may take place could reduce the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated widely, ranging from $6.31 to $9.53 during the year ended December 29, 2006. Our stock price could continue to experience significant fluctuations in response to factors such as quarterly variations in operating results, operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of Common Stock and stock volume fluctuations. Also, general political and economic conditions such as recession or interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our stock. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 