Item 1A. Risk Factors The loss of a key distributor or customer in the Company’s medical or custom products segments could cause a rapid and significant sales decline, which would likely result in a material decline in earnings. Many of our medical products are sold through large national distributors in the United States and Canada. We do not maintain long-term distribution agreements with most of these distributors. Instead, we supply them based on purchase orders that are issued by the customers on a daily or weekly basis. With minimal notice, either party can generally end these supplier-customer relationships. Consequently, if a large customer or distributor decided to discontinue purchasing our products, our sales and earnings could quickly decline. Our largest customers in the medical segment are McKesson Medical-Surgical and Cardinal Health, which accounted for 11% and 10%, respectively, of sales in the medical segment in fiscal 2012. In addition, all of our consumer foam products are sold through our exclusive distributor, Louisville Bedding Company, under a marketing and distribution agreement that expires in December 2015. The agreement automatically renews for successive three-year terms unless either party provides notice of its intent not to renew at least 60 days prior to the expiration date. Sales to Louisville Bedding Company accounted for 34% of sales for the Company in fiscal 2012 and 88% of sales in the custom products segment. For more information on major customers and information on our business segments, see the discussions under Item 1. “Business – Major Customers,” Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Medical – Distributor and Private-Label Manufacturing Relationships,” Item 1. “Business – Industry Segment Data – Custom Products,” Note 18 – Major Customers and Note 19 – Operations and Industry Segments and Geographic Areas in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The current weakness in the U.S. economy combined with uncertainties about healthcare reform and tax policy could cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material negative effect on our earnings. The largest volume product lines within our medical segment are our lines of therapeutic support surfaces, which consist of our PressureGuard and Geo-Mattress products as well as our private-label support surfaces. These products are generally considered by us and our customers to be capital purchase items instead of consumable supplies. We believe that purchases of these capital goods are more easily postponed during business downturns than purchases of consumables. Consequently, sales of our support surfaces and bed frames are likely to be more sensitive to general economic weakness than other medical product lines in our business. Also, uncertainties about tax policy and the full implementation of healthcare reform could cause our customers to delay, reduce or cancel capital expenditure plans, which could slow sales particularly within our support surface and bed frame product lines. Therapeutic support surface sales made up 30% of total Company sales during fiscal 2012 and increased 7% during the year compared with fiscal 2011. Sales of bed frames, which resulted from the M.C. Healthcare acquisition, made up 12% of total Company sales during fiscal 2012. Sales of therapeutic support surfaces and bed frames could decline if the economy remains weak or worsens or if healthcare reform and changes in tax policy result in reduced demand from our customers. 14 In addition, our industrial products are sold primarily to the automotive, packaging and water sports industries, as well as various other manufacturers. Our industrial business has historically been more affected by general economic trends than other Span-America product lines. Therefore an economic downturn is likely to have a greater effect on sales of industrial products than on other product lines in our business. Sales of industrial products could decline if the economy remains weak or worsens. Since many of our operating costs are fixed within a normal monthly range of sales and production activity, sales declines could result in proportionally greater declines in earnings performance. We would attempt to reduce expenses in response to lower sales levels, but we cannot give assurance that we would be able to fully offset the effect of a decline in sales volume. As a result our business could be materially adversely affected by an economic downturn or continuing weakness of the economy. Current weaknesses or downturns in the U.S. and global economies could also have a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of one or more of our key customers or distributors or on several customers and distributors that, in the aggregate, account for a material portion of our sales. Such an adverse effect on our customers or distributors could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our own business and/or financial condition as a result of a loss or material reduction in our sales to such customers or distributors and also, potentially, our inability to collect material accounts receivable (which accounts receivable are unsecured) owed to us by such customers or distributors if they become unable to pay their debts. Our acquisition of M.C. Healthcare in December 2011 introduces several new risks for the Company, including those related to business integration, international operations, foreign exchange and impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Although we have no current plans to make significant changes to the operations of M.C. Healthcare, our efforts to integrate the various operational processes of Span-America and M.C. Healthcare could result in temporary business disruptions or inefficiencies. In addition, the change in ownership could precipitate changes in M.C. Healthcare’s relationships with key customers or suppliers. These events could have a negative effect on our earnings performance. While we believe that the M.C. Healthcare acquisition will prove to be successful and improve our financial performance, we cannot guarantee that the acquisition will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks inherent with any acquisition such as retaining key employees and the risk that unexpected liabilities may arise from the M.C. Healthcare acquisition. M.C. Healthcare’s manufacturing facility is located in Beamsville, Ontario, Canada. We are leasing the current facility under a five-year lease agreement as described elsewhere in this report. As a result, we will be operating in a foreign country under different laws, regulations and customs, all of which will add potential new risks and costs to the Company. Prior to the acquisition, Span-America had no material foreign exchange risk. As a result of the acquisition, we now manufacture and sell products in the U.S. and Canada. Revenues and costs are incurred in both U.S. and Canadian dollars. We are therefore subject to realized and unrealized gains or losses on foreign currency translation activities related to our operations. These foreign exchange gains or losses could have a material effect on our results of operations. 15 The M.C. Healthcare acquisition resulted in additional goodwill of approximately $2.5 million. This goodwill will be evaluated at least annually for possible impairment. If the goodwill became impaired and not recoverable, it could result in a material non-cash charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our medical business could lose sales volume or could have a lower sales growth rate as a result of government reimbursement changes in the medical market. A number of our medical products are eligible for reimbursement by Medicare. We receive no direct reimbursements from Medicare, but our customers often submit reimbursement requests to Medicare. For example, we sell therapeutic support surfaces to home health care dealers who in turn rent these products to patients. Medicare reimburses the dealers for some or all of the patient’s rental cost. If Medicare reimbursement rates are reduced, the demand for our medical products that are covered by Medicare could decrease, depending on the size of the rate reduction and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. Our earnings could be negatively affected by raw material cost increases that we are unable to recover through sales price increases. The cost of polyurethane foam represented approximately 43% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2012. An increase in foam raw material costs that we are not able to pass through to our customers by increasing prices could have a significant negative effect on our profitability. Besides polyurethane foam, our other major raw material categories include therapeutic support surface covers made of various water-proof fabrics, vinyl bags, vinyl air cylinders, electronic components for beds and support surfaces, motors, pneumatic pumps, blowers, corrugated boxes, bed actuators, steel and metal stampings. Raw materials are our single largest cost category, representing approximately 75% of our total cost of goods sold in fiscal 2012. Cost increases in these raw materials could have a significant adverse effect on earnings if we are unable to recover the higher costs through sales price increases or operating expense reductions. Changes in applicable laws or increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased raw material or other costs, which would negatively affect our profitability. Our sales volume could decline as a result of competition from low-cost foreign imports. During the last several years, we have experienced increased competition in our medical and custom products segments from low-cost foreign imports. In the medical segment, the number of low-cost, imported mattress products has increased, but it has not yet had a significant impact on our medical business. We believe that we have potentially greater exposure to low-cost imports in our consumer bedding product lines because those products have more commodity-like characteristics than our medical products. Also, our customers, which are generally national retailers, are more likely to change suppliers to buy lower-cost products. Therefore, we could lose significant sales volume in our consumer bedding business and some portion of our medical sales volume if we are unable to compete effectively with low-cost imports. 16 Certain of our medical products are classified as medical devices and are regulated by the FDA. These regulations require, among other things, that medical device manufacturers register with the FDA, list devices manufactured by them, and file various reports. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities and must comply with “good manufacturing practices” as required by the FDA and state regulatory authorities. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulations, the existence of the regulations creates the risk of a product recall and related expenses as well as the risk of additional expenses required to meet new regulatory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 