Item 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Investors and prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. We have identified below the known, significant risk factors that could affect our business and affect the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We compete with much larger companies. Our competitors, including Alcon, Abbott Medical Optics and Bausch & Lomb have much greater financial resources than we do and some of them have large international markets for a full suite of ophthalmic products. Their greater resources for research, development and marketing, and their greater capacity to offer comprehensive products and equipment to providers, make it difficult for us to compete. We have lost significant market share to some of our competitors. FDA compliance issues have delayed approvals and we expect to devote significant resources to maintaining compliance in the future. The Office of Compliance of the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health regularly inspects STAAR’s facilities to determine whether we are in compliance with the FDA Quality System Regulations relating to such things as manufacturing practices, validation, testing, quality control, product labeling and complaint handling, and in compliance with FDA Medical Device Reporting regulations and other FDA regulations. The FDA also regularly inspects for compliance with regulations governing clinical investigations. Based on the results of regularly scheduled inspections of the Nidau, Switzerland facility between June 2 and June 5, 2009 and of the Monrovia, California facility on January 25, 2012, STAAR believes that it is substantially in compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations and Medical Device Reporting regulations However, past q uality system deficiencies observed at STAAR have led to FDA Warning Letters and delays in product approvals until we resolved agency concerns. Past deficiencies in clinical study procedures, practices and documentation related to the TICL led the FDA to place an integrity hold on the TICL application in August 2007, which was lifted in July 2009. STAAR’s ability to continue its U.S. business depends on the continuous improvement of its quality systems and constant vigilance in its compliance with FDA regulations. Accordingly, for the foreseeable future STAAR’s management expects to continue to devote significant resources and attention to those efforts. STAAR cannot ensure that its efforts will be successful. Any failure to demonstrate substantial compliance with FDA regulations can result in enforcement actions that terminate, suspend or severely restrict our ability to continue manufacturing and selling medical devices. Please see the related risks discussed under the headings “We are subject to extensive government regulation, which increases our costs and could prevent us from selling our products” and “We are subject to federal and state regulatory investigations.” FDA approval of the Toric ICL, which could have a significant U.S. market, has been considerably delayed. An important part of STAAR’s Visian ICL product portfolio is the Toric ICL, or TICL, a variant of the ICL that corrects both astigmatism and myopia in a single lens and that is currently marketed outside the U.S. STAAR believes the TICL has a significant potential market in the U.S. and could accelerate growth of the overall refractive product line. STAAR submitted a supplemental PMA for the TICL in April 2006, which remains subject to FDA review and a number of pending questions under discussion with the agency. Without the Toric ICL the Visian product line is not likely to reach its full market potential in the U.S., and STAAR cannot predict when or if the FDA will approve it. 18 The global nature of our business may result in fluctuations and declines in our sales and profits. Our products are sold in approximately 60 countries. Sales from international operations make up a significant portion of our total sales. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2011, sales from international operations were 78% of our total sales. The results of operations and the financial position of certain of our foreign operations are reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to translation risk. In addition, we are exposed to transaction risk because some of our sales and expenses are incurred in a different currency from the local currency. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Japanese yen, the euro, and the Swiss franc. The exchange rates between these and other local currencies and the U.S. dollar may fluctuate substantially. We have not attempted to offset our exposure to these risks by investing in derivatives or engaging in other hedging transactions. Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and local customs vary widely among the countries in which we sell our products. Our operations outside of the U.S. face a number of risks and potential costs, enjoy less stringent protection of intellectual property and face economic, political and social uncertainty in some countries, especially in emerging markets. Our continued success as a global company depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement policies and strategies that are effective in anticipating and managing these and other risks in the countries where we do business. These and other risks may have a material adverse effect on our operations in any particular country and on our business as a whole. We price some of our products in U.S. dollars, and as a result changes in exchange rates can make our products more expensive in some offshore markets and reduce our sales. Inflation in emerging markets also makes our products more expensive there and increases the credit risks to which we are exposed. We depend on key employees. We depend on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees. The loss of a key employee could hurt our business. We could be particularly hurt if any key employee or employees went to work for competitors. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect our results. We do not maintain insurance policies to cover the cost of replacing the services of any of our key employees who may unexpectedly die or become disabled. We have a history of losses that could continue in the future. During 2011 STAAR achieved net income from continuing operations after reporting losses for more than ten years. STAAR has just crossed the threshold of profitability, and sustained profitability remains vulnerable to the competitive nature of our industry and the other risks to our business detailed below. We have an accumulated deficit of $130.7 million as of December 30, 2011. We rely on depend on independent distributors in international markets. Except for North America and Japan, STAAR sells its products through independent distributors who are generally control the importation and marketing of our product within their territories. We generally grant exclusive rights to these distributors and rely on them to understand local market conditions, to diligently sell our products and to comply with local laws and regulations. Our agreements with distributors and local laws can make it difficult for us to quickly change from a distributor who we feel is underperforming. If we do terminate an independent distributor, we may lose customers who have been dealing with that distributor. Because we do not have local staff in most of the areas covered by independent distributors, it may be difficult for us to detect failures in our distributors’ performance or compliance. Actions by independent distributors that are beyond our control could result in flat or declining sales in that territory, harm to the reputation of our company or its products, or legal liability. The success of our international operations depends on our successfully managing our foreign subsidiaries. We conduct most of our international business through wholly owned subsidiaries. Managing distant subsidiaries and fully integrating them into STAAR’s business is challenging. While STAAR seeks to integrate its foreign subsidiaries fully into its operations, direct supervision of every aspect of their operations is impossible, and as a result STAAR relies on its local managers and staff. Cultural factors, language differences and the local legal climate can result in misunderstandings among internationally dispersed personnel, and increase the risk of failing to meet U.S. and foreign legal requirements, including with respect to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks increased after we completed the acquisition of STAAR Japan Inc. and remain significant. The risk that unauthorized conduct may go undetected will always be greater in foreign subsidiaries. Non-compliance with anti-corruption laws could lead to penalties or harm our reputation. We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA. Any failure to comply with these laws, even if inadvertent, could result in significant penalties or otherwise harm our reputation and business. Our reliance on foreign subsidiaries and independent distributors demands a high degree of vigilance in maintaining our policy against participation in corrupt activity. In many of our markets outside the U.S., doctors and hospital administrators may be deemed government officials. Other U.S. companies in the medical device and pharmaceutical field have faced criminal penalties under the FCPA for allowing their agents to deviate from appropriate practices in doing business with such individuals. 19 Unfavorable economic conditions hurt sales of our refractive products. Refractive surgery is an elective procedure generally not covered by health insurance. Patients must pay for the procedure, frequently through installment financing arrangements. They can defer the choice to have refractive surgery if they lack the disposable income to pay for it or do not feel their income is secure. Laser refractive surgery experienced a significant decrease in demand globally with the recession that began in mid-2008, and has not fully recovered. While Visian ICL sales have continued to grow globally, STAAR believes that negative economic conditions have slowed growth, especially in the U.S. Economic stagnation, lack of consumer confidence or new recessions in any of our key markets could further slow Visian ICL sales growth or, if severe, cause declines in sales. Because the Visian ICL is STAAR’s fastest growing and highest gross margin product, restricted growth or a decline in its sales could materially harm STAAR’s business. Negative publicity concerning complications of laser eye surgery could reduce the demand for our refractive products as well. Negative publicity about laser eye surgery has appeared in the U.S. and some other refractive surgery markets. On April 25, 2008, the FDA Ophthalmic Devices Panel held a public meeting to discuss reports of medical complications and customer satisfaction following refractive surgery. The resulting publicity broadened public awareness of the potential complications of refractive surgery and potential patient dissatisfaction, in particular as a result of LASIK and other corneal laser-based procedures. In May 2009 the FDA issued a cautionary letter to surgeons regarding promotion and advertising of lasers used in refractive surgery. In October 2009 the FDA, in collaboration with the National Eye Institute and the U.S. Department of Defense, began a major study on the quality of life for patients after LASIK surgery, which is to be concluded in 2012. The results of this study could amplify concerns about complications of laser refractive surgery. While these concerns could encourage patients and doctors to select the Visian ICL as an alternative, they could also decrease patient interest in all refractive surgery, including Visian ICL. Depending on the nature and severity of future negative publicity about refractive surgery, the growth of ICL sales in the U.S. could be limited or sales could decline as a result. Because nearly all candidates for refractive surgery can achieve acceptable vision through the use of spectacles or contact lenses, for most patients the decision to have refractive surgery is a lifestyle choice that depends on high confidence in achieving a satisfactory outcome. We may not realize the expected benefits of our manufacturing consolidation project and tax strategies. Beginning in 2011 STAAR has invested significant resources in a manufacturing consolidation project and a tax strategy initiative, and it expects to invest several million dollars to complete the projects. The goal of these projects is to increase profit margins by improving manufacturing efficiency, simplifying administrative and regulatory functions, and reducing tax liabilities. We cannot assure that we will achieve the expected benefits of these initiatives. Among other things, costs could exceed current estimates, product manufacturing transfers can be affected by delays or cause supply interruptions, changes in tax laws could reduce or eliminate expected benefits of some of our tax strategies, and future profit margins can be affected by a variety of factors unrelated to our level of manufacturing efficiency. Our manufacturing consolidation plan exposes us to risk. Transferring the manufacturing of medical devices is more expensive, time-consuming and risky than similar transfers in less regulated industries. In our major markets, regulatory approval to sell our products is generally limited to the current manufacturing site, and changing the site will require applications to and approval from regulatory bodies prior to commercialization. To satisfy our own quality standards as well as regulations, we must follow strict protocols to confirm that products made at a new site are equivalent to those made at the currently approved site. Even minor changes in equipment, supplies or processes require validation. While STAAR has placed a priority on maintaining the continuity and quality of its product supply, unanticipated delays or difficulties in the transfer process could interrupt our supply of products. Any sustained interruption in supply could cause us to lose market share and harm our business. We may experience backlog in ICL orders due to rapid increases in demand. The challenge of maintaining inventory across the large number of ICL models, combined with rapidly increasing global demand for the ICL, has from time to time resulted in a backlog in customer orders. While the dollar amount of backlog orders is not currently significant in relation to our total annual sales, unexpectedly large orders for ICLs could increase our backlog to levels that are financially significant. In addition, delays in filling orders can result in lost sales if alternative refractive treatments are available to the patient. If we are unable to ramp up production to meet growing demand we may not achieve our growth targets. We could experience losses due to product liability claims. We have been subject to product liability claims in the past and may experience such claims in the future. Product liability claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a loss in excess of our deductible. A product liability claim that exceeds our insurance coverage could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, we must generally pay for losses until they reach the level of the policy’s stated deductible or retention amount after which the insurer begins paying. The payment of retentions or deductibles for a significant amount of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any product liability claim would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm our reputation with customers. We cannot assure you that we will not have product liability claims in the future or that such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 We may have limited ability to fully use our recorded tax loss carryforwards. We have accumulated approximately $121.1 million of U.S. federal tax net operating loss carryforwards as of December 30, 2011, which can be used to offset taxable income in future quarters if our U.S. operations become profitable. If unused, these tax loss carryforwards will begin to expire between 2020 and 2031. Although we currently generate profits on a consolidated basis, those profits are generated outside the U.S. and are subject to relatively high income taxes that we cannot offset with U.S. loss carryforwards. As part of our global consolidation strategy we plan to locate our profit generating activities in the U.S., but unexpected changes in tax laws or delays and complications in our consolidation efforts could prevent us from realizing the benefits of this tax strategy. Moreover, under the current tax laws, if we were to experience a significant change in ownership, Internal Revenue Code Section 382 may restrict the future utilization of these tax loss carryforwards even if our U.S. operations generate significant profits. We are subject to international tax laws that could affect our financial results. STAAR conducts international operations through its subsidiaries. Tax laws affecting international operations are highly complex and subject to change. STAAR’s payment of income tax in the different countries where it operates depends in part on internal settlement prices and administrative charges among STAAR and its subsidiaries. These arrangements require judgments by STAAR and are subject to risk that tax authorities will disagree with those judgments and impose additional taxes, penalties or interest on STAAR. In addition, transactions that STAAR has arranged in light of current tax rules could have unforeseeable negative consequences if tax rules change. We have only limited working capital and limited access to financing. We began generating cash from operations in 2009 after six consecutive years when our cash requirements exceeded the level of cash generated by operations. We may not be able to sustain positive cash flow, and unexpected cash needs could exceed the amount of cash we generate. While we believe our capital resources and funds generated by operations are sufficient to operate our business and satisfy our obligations, if unexpected events increase our expenses or harm the performance of our business we may need to seek additional financing. We may also be presented with opportunities to expand our business that require additional financing. Should we need additional working capital, our ability to raise financing through sales of equity securities depends on general market conditions and the demand for STAAR’s common stock. We may be unable to raise adequate capital through sales of equity securities, and if our stock has a low market price at the time of such sales our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. Because of our history of losses STAAR may also have difficulty obtaining debt financing on acceptable terms or renewing existing debt facilities. An inability to secure additional financing if it is needed in the future could require us to forego opportunities for expansion, reduce existing operations, or even jeopardize our ability to continue operations. If we suffer loss to our facilities due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed. We depend on the continuing operation of our manufacturing facilities in California, Japan and Switzerland, which have little redundancy or overlap among their activities. Our facilities could suffer catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. Our California and Japanese facilities are in areas where earthquakes could cause catastrophic loss. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. We plan to consolidate all of our manufacturing to our Monrovia, California facility, which will increase our exposure to a disaster that occurs in that area. Our insurance for property damage and business interruption may not be sufficient to cover any particular loss. We do not carry insurance or reserve funds for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and we may be subject to significant increases in pension benefit obligations under those pension plans. We sponsor two defined benefit pension plans through our wholly owned Swiss and Japanese subsidiaries. Both plans are underfunded and may require significant cash payments. During 2011, we contributed $275,000 to our Swiss Plan, and although we did not contribute to our Japan Plan, we made benefit payment of $38,000. Beginning October 1, 2009, as part of the Amendment of the Japan Plan discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, STAAR Japan has maintained and administered the Japan Plan, including paying the pension benefits as they are due solely from its continuing operations. STAAR Japan is not required to make any contributions to the Japan Plan in order to meet future pension benefit obligations, and does not expect to do so. As a result, STAAR Japan has no plan assets now and does not expect to have any in the future. STAAR determines its pension benefit obligations and funding status using many assumptions, such as inflation, investment rates, mortality, turnover and interest rates, as applicable, any of which could prove to be different than projected. If the investment performance does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, or not realized, we may be required to contribute more than we currently expect and increase our future pension benefit obligations to be funded from our operations. Our pension plans in the aggregate are underfunded by approximately $2.8 million ($1.1 million for the Japan Plan and $1.7 million for the Swiss Plan) as of December 30, 2011. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our worldwide pension obligations, we may be materially and adversely harmed and have to seek additional capital. 21 Our activities involve hazardous materials and emissions and may subject us to environmental liability. Our manufacturing, research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacturing, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products in the places where we have operations. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Remedial environmental actions could require us to incur substantial unexpected costs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we were involved in an environmental accident or found to be in substantial non-compliance with applicable environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. Most of our products have single-site manufacturing approvals, exposing us to risks of business interruption. We manufacture all of our products at our facilities in California, Switzerland, and Japan. Most of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one of these sites. Before we can use a second manufacturing site for an implantable device we must obtain the approval of regulatory authorities. Because this process is expensive we have generally not sought approvals needed to manufacture at an additional site. If a natural disaster, fire, or other serious business interruption struck one of our manufacturing facilities, it could take a significant amount of time to validate a second site and replace lost product. We could lose customers to competitors, thereby reducing sales, profitability and market share. While our insurance covers lost revenue resulting from business interruption for a number of causes, if we have no product supplies for an extended period we could suffer an unrecoverable loss of market share. We do not have insurance coverage for revenue lost in a business interruption following an earthquake. Once completed, our manufacturing consolidation plan could increase the risk of harm to our business from a natural disaster in California. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted. We depend on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, our information technology infrastructure handles electronic communications among our locations around the world and between our personnel and our subsidiaries, customers, and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such security breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Changes in accounting standards could affect our financial results. The accounting rules applicable to public companies like STAAR are subject to frequent revision. Future changes in accounting standards could require us to change the way we calculate income, expense or balance sheet data, which could significantly change our reported results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to the Ophthalmic Products Industry If we recall a product, the cost and damage to our reputation could harm our business. Medical devices must be manufactured to the highest standards and tolerances, and often incorporate newly developed technology. From time to time defects or technical flaws in medical devices may not come to light until after the products are sold or consigned. In those circumstances, like others in our industry, we have voluntarily recalled our products. Similar recalls could take place again. We may also be subject to recalls initiated by manufacturers of products we distribute. Courts or regulators can also impose mandatory recalls on us, even if we believe our products are safe and effective. STAAR believes that in recent years it has been less affected by recalls than most of its U.S. competitors, but cannot eliminate the risk of a material recall in the future. Recalls can result in lost sales of the recalled products themselves, and can result in further lost sales while replacement products are manufactured, especially if the replacements must be redesigned. If recalled products have already been implanted, we may bear some or all of the cost of corrective surgery. Recalls may also damage our professional reputation and the reputation of our products. The inconvenience caused by recalls and related interruptions in supply, and the damage to our reputation, could cause professionals to discontinue using our products. If we fail to keep pace with advances in our industry or fail to persuade physicians to adopt the new products we introduce, customers may not buy our products and our sales may decline. Constant development of new technologies and techniques, frequent new product introductions and strong price competition characterize the ophthalmic industry. The first company to introduce a new product or technique to market usually gains a significant competitive advantage. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop products to treat diseases and disorders of the eye that are more effective, safer, or incorporate emerging technologies better than our competitors’ products. Sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if one of our competitors introduces a superior product, or if we announce a new product of our own. If we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development or if we focus on technologies that do not lead to better products, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products. In addition, we must manufacture these products economically and market them successfully by persuading a sufficient number of eye-care professionals to use them. Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. We spent about 9.3% of our sales on research and development during the fiscal year ended December 30, 2011, and we expect to spend similar amounts for this purpose in future periods. Development of new implantable technology, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, is expensive and typically takes from three to seven years. Because of the complexities and uncertainties of ophthalmic research and development, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market the products successfully. Any of the products currently under development may fail to become commercially successful. 22 Changes in reimbursement for our products by third-party payors could reduce sales of our products or make them less profitable. Many of our products, in particular IOLs and products related to the treatment of glaucoma, are used in procedures that are typically covered by health insurance, HMO plans, Medicare, Medicaid, or other governmental sponsored programs both in and outside the U.S. Third party payors in both government and the private sector continue to seek to manage costs by restricting the types of procedures they reimburse to those viewed as most cost-effective and by capping or reducing reimbursement rates. Whether they limit reimbursement prices for our products or limit the surgical fees for a procedure that uses our products, these policies can reduce the sales volume of our reimbursed products, their selling prices or both. Future cost cutting initiatives could result in unexpected reductions in the reimbursement rates for IOLs and related products. In some countries government insurers have sought to control costs by limiting the total number of procedures they will reimburse. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislative proposals that would significantly change the system of public and private health care reimbursement, and will likely consider such changes again in the future. We are not able to predict whether new legislation or changes in regulations will take effect at the state or federal level, but if enacted these changes could significantly and adversely affect our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation worldwide, which increases our costs and could prevent us from selling our products. STAAR is regulated by regional, national, state and local agencies. In the U.S. our regulators include the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we manufacture or distribute products. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to medical devices, including their pre-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. We are subject to similar regulatory regimes in other key regions of Europe and Asia, in particular Japan. Regulations worldwide are becoming more stringent. We have described in detail the regulations governing approval of medical devices and their manufacturing in the “Business – Regulatory Matters” section of this Report. We are also subject to government regulation over the prices we charge and any rebates we may offer to customers. Complying with government regulation substantially increases the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. Competing in the ophthalmic products industry requires us to introduce new or improved products and processes continuously, and to submit these to the FDA and other regulatory bodies for approval. Obtaining approval can be a long and expensive process, and approval is never certain. In addition, our operations are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and international regulators. An unfavorable outcome in an FDA inspection may result in the FDA ordering changes in our business practices or taking other enforcement action, which could be costly and severely harm our business. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. If a regulatory authority delays approval of a potentially significant product, the potential sales of the product and its value to us can be substantially reduced. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses of the product, or may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute the product, or may require post-marketing studies. If we cannot obtain timely regulatory approval of our new products, or if the approval is too narrow, we will not be able to market these products, which would eliminate or reduce our potential sales and earnings. Investigations and allegations, whether or not they lead to enforcement action or litigation, can materially harm our business and our reputation. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA or other regulators can result in civil and criminal fines, the recall of products, the total or partial suspension of manufacture or distribution, seizure of products, injunctions, whistleblower lawsuits, failure to obtain approval of pending product applications, withdrawal of existing product approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and other sanctions. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action can also generate adverse publicity and require us to divert substantial resources from more productive uses in our business. Enforcement actions could affect our ability to distribute our products commercially and could materially harm our business. From time to time STAAR is subject to formal and informal inquiries by regulatory agencies, which could lead to investigations or enforcement actions. Even when an inquiry results in no evidence of wrongdoing, is inconclusive or is otherwise not pursued, the agency generally is not required to notify STAAR of its findings and may not inform STAAR that the inquiry has been terminated. STAAR maintains a hotline for employees to report any violation of laws, regulations or company policies anonymously, which is intended to permit STAAR to identify and remedy improper conduct. Nevertheless, present or former employees may elect to bring complaints to regulators and enforcement agencies. The relevant agency will generally be obligated to investigate such complaints to assess their validity and obtain evidence of any violation that may have occurred. In response to reports that its policies or applicable laws or regulations have been violated, STAAR may find it necessary to conduct its own intense investigations, which may be extensive. Even without a finding of misconduct, negative publicity about investigations or allegations of misconduct could harm our reputation with professionals and the market for our common stock. Responding to investigations or conducting internal investigations can be costly, time-consuming and disruptive to our business. 23 Strikes, slow-downs or other job actions by doctors can reduce sales of cataract-related products. In many countries where STAAR sells its products, doctors, including ophthalmologists, are employees of the government, government-sponsored enterprises or large health maintenance organizations. In recent years employed doctors who object to salary limitations, working rules, reimbursement policies or other conditions have sought redress through strikes, slow-downs and other job actions. These actions often result in the deferral of non-essential procedures, such as cataract surgeries, which affects sales of our products. Depending on the importance of the affected region to STAAR’s business, the length of the action and its pervasiveness, job actions by doctors can materially reduce our sales and earnings. We depend on proprietary technologies, but may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secrecy laws, contractual provisions and confidentiality procedures and copyright laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal measures afford limited protection and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Any of our pending patent applications may fail to result in an issued patent or fail to provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered by patents in our industry may involve complex legal issues that are open to dispute. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: ·cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our sales; ·negotiate a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or ·redesign our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of a third party, which may be costly and time-consuming or impossible to accomplish. We may not successfully develop and launch replacements for our products that lose patent protection. Most of our products are covered by patents that, if valid, give us a degree of market exclusivity during the term of the patent. We have also earned revenue in the past by licensing some of our patented technology to other ophthalmic companies. Generally, the legal life of a patent in the U.S. is 20 years from application. Patents covering our products will expire from this year through the next 20 years. Upon patent expiration, our competitors may introduce products using the same technology. Key patents covering the Collamer formulation and essential design features of the Visian ICL and TICL will expire between 2014 and 2016. As a result of this possible increase in competition, we may need to reduce our prices to maintain sales of our products, which would make them less profitable. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our sales and profits with respect to those products could decline significantly. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products before these and other patents expire. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition or sale of our company. Our Certificate of Incorporation empowers the Board of Directors to establish and issue a class of preferred stock, and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock. These provisions give the Board of Directors the ability to deter, discourage or make more difficult a change in control of our company, even if such a change in control could be deemed in the interest of our stockholders or if such a change in control would provide our stockholders with a substantial premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock. Our bylaws contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including the following: ·stockholders have limited ability to remove directors; ·stockholders cannot act by written consent; ·stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; ·the above limitations on stockholder action can be changed only by a 66-2/3% supermajority vote of stockholders; and ·stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors. 24 Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock or prevent changes in our management. Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price. Our Board of Directors could issue additional shares of common or preferred stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes without stockholder approval. In addition, the Board of Directors could designate and sell a class of preferred stock with preferential rights over the common stock with respect to dividends or other distributions. Also, STAAR has filed a universal “shelf registration statement” with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The shelf registration statement covers the future public offering and sale of up to $75 million in equity or debt securities or any combination of such securities. While STAAR currently has no plans to issue any securities under the shelf registration, sales of common or preferred stock under the shelf registration or in other transactions could dilute the interest of existing stockholders and reduce the market price of our common stock. Even in the absence of such sales, the perception among investors that additional sales of equity securities may take place could reduce the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated widely. It ranged from $4.48 to $11.50 per share during the year ended December 30, 2011 and was $11.00 on March 2, 2012. Our stock price could continue to experience significant fluctuations in response to factors such as market perceptions, quarterly variations in operating results, operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of Common Stock and stock volume fluctuations. Also, general political and economic conditions such as recession or interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 