Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by issues that affect its clients’ spending decisions during periods of economic weakness or uncertainty. The Company’s revenues are derived from many clients in a variety of industries and businesses, some of whose product introduction, marketing and advertising spending levels can be subject to significant reductions based on changes in, among other things, general economic conditions. Schawk’s operating results may reflect its clients’ order patterns and its business is sensitive to the effects of economic downturns or decreased business and consumer spending on its clients’ businesses. In addition, because the Company conducts its operations in a variety of markets, it is subject to economic conditions in each of these markets. Accordingly, general economic downturns or localized downturns in markets where the Company has operations or other circumstances that result in reductions in its clients’ investment in product introduction and innovation or marketing and advertising budgets can negatively impact the Company’s sales volume and revenues, its margins and its ability to respond to competition or to take advantage of business opportunities. Prolonged deterioration, weakness or uncertainty in global economic conditions and in the credit and capital markets and weak consumer and business confidence has and could continue to significantly impact the overall demand for Schawk’s services. As clients come under increasing pressures or continue to operate in a weak or uncertain economic environment, it may result in, among other consequences, a further reduction in spending on the 12 services that the Company provides, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to unpredictable order flows. Although approximately one-half of the Company’s revenues are derived from clients with whom the Company has contractual agreements ranging from one to five years in duration, individual assignments from clients are on an “as needed”, project-by-project basis. The contractual agreements do not require minimum volumes, therefore, depending on the level of activity with its clients, the Company can experience unpredictable order flows. While technological advances have enabled Schawk to shorten considerably its production cycle to meet its clients’ increasing speed-to-market demands, the Company may in turn receive less advance notice from its clients of upcoming projects or the cancellation or postponement of anticipated projects. Although the Company has established long-standing relationships with many of its clients and believes its reputation for quality service is excellent, the Company is not able to predict with certainty the volume of its business even in the near future and will remain susceptible to unexpected fluctuations in client spending. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry. The Company competes with other providers of graphic imaging and creative services. The market for such services is highly fragmented, with several national and many regional participants in the United States as well as in foreign countries in which it operates. The Company faces, and will continue to face, competition in its business from many sources, including national and large regional companies, some of which have greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company. In addition, local and regional firms specializing in particular markets compete on the basis of established long-term relationships or specialized knowledge of such markets. The introduction of new technologies also may create lower barriers to entry that may allow other firms to provide competing services. There can be no assurance that competitors will not introduce services or products that achieve greater market acceptance than, or are technologically superior to, Schawk’s current service offerings. The Company cannot offer assurance that it will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not realize expected benefits from its technology enhancement, cost reduction and capacity utilization initiatives. In order to improve the efficiency of its operations, Schawk implemented certain technology enhancement, cost reduction and capacity utilization activities in 2008 and 2009, including workforce reductions and work site realignment, and has plans to continue these or similar actions throughout 2010 in order to achieve certain cost savings and to strategically realign its resources. The Company cannot assure you that it will realize the expected cost savings or improve its operating performance as a result of its past, current and future cost reduction activities and technology enhancement initiatives. It also cannot assure you that its cost reduction activities will not adversely affect its ability to retain key employees, the significant loss of whom could adversely affect its operating results. Further, as a result of its cost reduction activities, the Company may not have the appropriate level of resources and personnel to appropriately react to significant changes or fluctuations in its markets and in the level of demand for its services. 13 The Company may encounter difficulties arising from future acquisitions or consolidation efforts, which may adversely impact its business. The Company has a history of making acquisitions and, over the past several years, has invested, and in the future may continue to invest, a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company with Schawk’s existing operations and realizing anticipated synergies; • the loss of key employees or key clients of the acquired company; • difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that the Company failed to discover during its due diligence investigations. There is no assurance that the Company will realize the expected benefits from any future acquisitions or that its existing operations will not be harmed as a result of any such acquisitions. In addition, the cost of unsuccessful acquisition efforts could adversely affect its financial performance. The Company has undertaken consolidation efforts in the past in connection with its acquisitions, and in connection with any future acquisitions, the Company will likely undertake consolidation plans to eliminate duplicate facilities and to otherwise improve operating efficiencies. Any future consolidation efforts may divert the attention of management, disrupt the Company’s ordinary operations or those of its subsidiaries, result in charges and additional costs or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Future acquisitions or organic growth also may place a strain on the Company’s financial and other resources. In order to manage future growth of its client services staff, Schawk will need to continue to improve its operational, financial and other internal systems. If the Company’s management is unable to manage growth effectively and revenues do not increase sufficiently to cover its increased expenses, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company is dependent on certain key clients. In both 2009 and 2008, the Company’s ten largest clients accounted for approximately 41 percent of its revenues and approximately 9 percent of total revenues came from the Company’s largest single client. While the Company seeks to build long-term client relationships, revenues from any particular client can fluctuate from period to period due to such client’s purchasing patterns, which, with respect to the Company’s consumer product company clients, may be driven by increases or decreases in their level of investment in brand enhancements and product introductions. Any termination of a business relationship with, or a significant sustained reduction in business received from, any of the Company’s principal clients for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s clients could shift a significant portion of their marketing dollars from print to online at a level that exceeds Schawk’s current ability to deliver the online services they need at the volumes they require. As online marketing and advertising opportunities continue to grow as a direct, measurable, and interactive way for the Company’s clients to reach consumers, more companies are shifting marketing dollars away from print to online. While Schawk currently offers a number of services that meet its clients’ online marketing and advertising needs, responding quickly, effectively and efficiently to requirements for more comprehensive interactive services might require the acquisition of additional talent or an established interactive agency, and its business might be adversely affected if it is unable to keep pace with or capitalize on these shifting marketing and advertising trends. 14 The Company remains susceptible to risks associated with technological and industry change, including risks based on the services it provides and may seek to provide in the future as a result of technological and industry changes. The Company believes its ability to develop and exploit emerging technologies has contributed to its success and has demonstrated to its clients the value of using its services rather than attempting to perform these functions in-house or through lower-cost, reduced-service competitors. The Company believes its success also has depended in part on its ability to adapt its business as technology advances in its industry have changed the way graphics projects are produced. These changes include a shift from traditional production of images to offering more consulting and project management services to clients and, more recently, repositioning the Company in the marketplace to reflect the Company’s brand point management services. Accordingly, Schawk’s ability to grow will depend upon its ability to keep pace with technological advances, industry evolutions and client expectations on a continuing basis and to integrate available technologies and provide additional services commensurate with client needs in a commercially appropriate manner. Its business may be adversely affected if the Company is unable to keep pace with relevant technological and industry changes or if the technologies or business strategies that the Company adopts or services it promotes do not receive widespread market acceptance. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of disclosure and internal controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results and may incur substantial costs related to remediation of its internal controls. The Company reported certain material weaknesses in internal control in connection with its assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, which have since been remediated. Additionally, in March 2008, it announced that a material charge for impairment of goodwill associated with one of the Company’s Canadian operating units should have been recorded as of December 31, 2002. As a result of accounting errors previously identified, the Company restated its 2006 and 2005 financial statements in its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and restated its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. If the Company were to determine that its previous material weaknesses were not properly rectified or fails to maintain the effectiveness of its internal controls, its operating results could be harmed and could result in further material misstatements in its financial statements. Inferior controls and procedures or the identification of additional accounting errors could cause the Company’s investors to lose confidence in its internal controls and in its reported financial information, which, among other things, could have a negative impact on the trading price of the Company’s stock, and subject the Company to increased regulatory scrutiny and a higher risk of stockholder litigation. Additionally, the Company has incurred significant costs and may incur substantial costs in the future in connection with remediation of its internal control weaknesses and ongoing enhancements to its internal controls, which also has diverted a significant amount of attention from its management that otherwise could have been directed toward operations. There can be no assurances that it will not discover additional instances of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in its internal controls and operations, which could have a further adverse effect on its financial results. The Company’s operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may cause the value of its stock to decline. The Company’s quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control, including: • timing of the completion of particular projects or orders; • material reduction, postponement or cancellation of major projects, or the loss of a major client; • timing and amount of new business; • differences in order flows; • sensitivity to the effects of changing economic conditions on its clients’ businesses; 15 • the strength of the consumer products industry; • the relative mix of different types of work with differing margins; • costs relating to expansion or reduction of operations, including costs to integrate current and any future acquisitions; • changes in interest costs, foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates; and • costs associated with compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Because of this, fixed costs that are not in line with revenue levels may not be detected until late in any given quarter and operating results could be adversely affected. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, the Company’s financial and operating results in any one quarter may not be a reliable indicator of its future performance. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) investigation may result in significant costs and expenses, may divert resources and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. As further described under Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings,” in March 2009 the Company was advised by the Staff of the SEC that the SEC had commenced a formal investigation arising out of the Company’s April 2008 restatement of its financial results for 2005, 2006 and the first three quarters of 2007. The Company has incurred professional fees and other costs in responding to the SEC’s earlier informal inquiry and presently ongoing formal inquiry and expects to continue to incur professional fees and other costs in the future, which may be significant, until resolved. In addition, the Company’s management, board of directors and employees may need to expend a substantial amount of time in addressing the SEC’s investigation, which could divert a significant amount of resources and attention that would otherwise be directed toward operations, all of which could materially adversely affect its business and results of operations. Further, if the SEC were to conclude that enforcement action is appropriate, the Company and/or its current or former officers and directors could be sanctioned or required to pay significant civil penalties and fines. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Impairment charges have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. The Company has recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $225 million as of December 31, 2009, or approximately 54 percent of total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $188 million as of December 31, 2009, or 45 percent of total assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and, in accordance with the Intangibles — Goodwill and Other Topic of the Codification (ASC 350), are reviewed at least annually for impairment. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded $48.0 million of impairment charges related to goodwill. Future events may occur that could adversely affect the value of the Company’s assets and require additional impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of a deteriorating economic environment and decreases in the Company’s market capitalization due to a decline in the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Circumstances and conditions that gave rise to charges in 2008 could occur again in the future, which may create a need to record additional impairment adjustments that could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial results. 16 Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, cash flows and financial results. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, consolidated net sales from operations outside the United States were approximately $137 million, which represented approximately 28 percent of consolidated net sales. Because the Company conducts a significant portion of its business outside the United States, it faces exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Currency exchange rates fluctuate in response to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, changes in monetary or trade policies and unexpected changes in regulatory environments. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the Company’s operating performance by impacting revenues and expenses outside of the United States due to fluctuations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or where the Company translates into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes the assets and liabilities of its foreign operations conducted in local currencies. A weakened U.S. dollar will increase the cost of local operating expenses to the extent that the Company must purchase components in foreign currencies, while an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to its clients outside the United States where the Company sells services in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, the Company’s financial results could ultimately be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to political, investment, currency, regulatory and other risks that could hinder it from transferring funds out of a foreign country, delay its debt service payments, cause its operating costs to increase and adversely affect its results of operations. The Company’s foreign operations have expanded significantly as a result of its acquisition of Winnetts in December 2004 and its acquisition of Seven in January 2005. The Company presently operates in fourteen countries in North America, Europe and Asia and intends to continue expanding its global operations. As a result, the Company is subject to various risks associated with operating in foreign countries, such as: • local economic and market conditions; • political, social and economic instability; • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism; • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation; • adverse or unexpected changes in government policies and regulations; • imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into U. S. dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • rapidly rising inflation in certain foreign countries; and • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments. These and other risks could disrupt the Company’s operations or force it to incur unanticipated costs and have an adverse effect on its ability to make payments on its debt obligations. Certain Schawk family members and affiliated trusts collectively own a significant interest in the Company and may collectively exercise their control in a manner that may be adverse to your interests. Certain members of the Schawk family and certain Schawk family trusts collectively control a majority of the outstanding voting power of the Company. Therefore, the Schawk family has the power in most cases to determine the outcome of any matter that is required to be submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of all the Company’s directors. Clarence W. Schawk and David A. Schawk, members of the Schawk family, also serve on the board of directors of the Company. Accordingly, it is possible that members of the Schawk family could influence or exercise their control over the Company in a manner that may be adverse to your interests. 17 In addition, as a result of the Schawk family’s controlling interest, as permitted under the corporate governance rules of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), the Company has elected “controlled company” status under those rules. As a controlled company, the Company may rely on exemptions from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements that otherwise would be applicable to a NYSE-listed company, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and (2) the Company have a separate nominating and corporate governance committee and a separate compensation committee, in each case composed entirely of independent directors and operating pursuant to written charters. The Company has relied on the controlled company exemption in the past and intends to continue to rely on it in the future. As a result, although the Company is listed on the NYSE, stockholders may not realize the benefits from the requirements and protections that these corporate governance rules impose on the significant number of NYSE-listed companies that do not operate under the controlled company exemption. The Company is subject to debt covenants under its debt arrangements that may restrict its operational flexibility and limit the Company’s ability to take advantage of opportunities for growth. As further discussed under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources,” the Company’s current credit facility, as well as its outstanding senior notes, contain covenants that limit the extent to which it may, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures, grant liens on its assets, increase dividends being paid on its common stock, repurchase its outstanding shares and make other restricted payments, sell its assets, make acquisitions or enter into consolidations or mergers. The credit facility also requires the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. These ratios, tests and covenants could restrict the Company’s business plans or limit or prohibit its ability to take actions that the Company believes would be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders, including making significant acquisitions as opportunities arise. Additionally, these ratios, tests and covenants could place Schawk at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors who may not be subject to similar restrictions and could limit the Company’s ability to plan for or react to changes in industry and market conditions. In the event the Company fails to comply with the debt covenants under its debt arrangements, it may not be able to obtain the necessary amendments or waivers, and its lenders could accelerate the payment of all outstanding amounts due under those arrangements. The Company’s ability to meet the financial ratios and tests contained in its credit facility, its senior notes and other debt arrangements, and otherwise comply with debt covenants may be affected by various events, including those that may be beyond the Company’s control. Accordingly, it may not be able to continue to meet those ratios, tests and covenants. A significant breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions, as applicable, could result in an event of default under the Company’s debt arrangements, which would allow its lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders were to accelerate the payment of the Company’s indebtedness, its assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. Further, as a result of any breach and during any cure period or negotiations to resolve a breach or expected breach, the Company’s lenders may refuse to make further loans, which would materially affect its liquidity and results of operations. In the event the Company were to fall out of compliance with one or more of its debt covenants in the future, it may not be successful in amending its debt arrangements or obtaining waivers for any such non-compliance. Even if it is successful in entering into an amendment or waiver, the Company could incur substantial costs in doing so, its borrowing costs could increase, and it may be subject to more restrictive covenants than the covenants under its existing amended debt arrangements. It is possible that any amendments to the Company’s credit facility or any restructured credit facility could impose covenants and financial ratios more restrictive than under its current facilities, and it may not be able to maintain compliance with those more restrictive covenants and financial ratios. In that event, the Company would need to seek another amendment to, or a refinancing of, its debt arrangements. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations, and there can be no assurance that it would be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 18 The loss of key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s current operations and its ability to achieve continued growth. The Company is highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of the its senior management team and other key employees, in particular David A. Schawk, its President and Chief Executive Officer, A. Alex Sarkisian, its Chief Operating Officer, and Timothy J. Cunningham, its Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any of these officers may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of the Company’s business objectives. The Company’s continued success also will depend on retaining the highly skilled employees that are critical to the continued advancement, development and support of its client services and ongoing sales and marketing efforts. Any loss of a significant number of its client service, sales or marketing professionals could negatively affect its business and prospects. Although the Company generally has been successful in its recruiting efforts, it competes for qualified individuals with companies engaged in its business lines and with other technology, marketing and manufacturing companies. Accordingly, the Company may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and its failure to do so could have an adverse effect on its ability to implement its business plan. If, for any reason, these officers or key employees do not remain with the Company, operations could be adversely affected until suitable replacements with appropriate experience can be found. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters, such as multi-employer pension withdrawal obligations, may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for the Company to produce its products and services, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters, as approximately 12 percent of its employees worldwide are unionized. A prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of Schawk’s principal facilities could have a negative impact on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, periodic renegotiation of labor contracts may result in increased costs or charges to the Company. In addition, future decisions by the Company to reduce or terminate participation in multi-employer pension plans at any of its participating facilities may trigger additional liabilities for partial termination withdrawals under the multi-employer plans. The price for the Company’s common stock can be volatile and unpredictable. The market price of the Company’s common stock can be volatile and may experience broad fluctuations over short periods of time. From January 1 through December 31, 2009, the high and low sales price of its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange ranged from $5.18 to $13.82, and the Company’s stock price experienced similar volatility in 2008. See the market price information under the caption “Stock Prices” under “Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” The market price of the Company’s common stock may continue to experience strong fluctuations due to unexpected events affecting the Company, variations in its operating results, analysts’ earnings estimates or investors’ expectations concerning its future results and its business generally, and such fluctuations may be exacerbated by limited market liquidity as a significant number of the Company’s outstanding shares are held by the Schawk family. In addition, the market price of its common stock may fluctuate due to broader market and industry factors, such as: • adverse information about, or the operating and stock price performance of, other companies in the Company’s industry or companies that comprise its client base, such as consumer products companies; • deterioration or adverse changes in general economic conditions; • continued high levels of volatility in the stock markets due to, among other things, disruptions in the capital and credit markets; and • announcements of new clients or service offerings by Schawk’s competitors. These and other market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of its actual operating performance. 19 The Company may be subject to losses that might not be covered in whole or in part by existing insurance coverage. These uninsured losses could result in substantial liabilities to the Company that would negatively impact its financial condition. The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire and extended coverage insurance on all of its facilities, and other specialized coverages, including errors and omissions coverage, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties and purposes. There are certain types of risks and losses, however, that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. In addition, there are some types of possible events or losses, such as a substantial monetary judgment stemming from a product liability claim or recall, that could exceed the Company’s policy limits. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could incur significant liabilities, and if such loss affects property the Company owns, the Company could lose capital invested in that property or the anticipated future revenues derived from the activities conducted at that property, while remaining liable for any lease or other financial obligations related to the property. In addition to substantial financial liabilities, an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the Company’s coverage could adversely affect its ability to replace property or capital equipment that is destroyed or damaged, and its productive capacity may diminish. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 