ITEM 1A. Risk factors In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business, important risk factors that may affect us are discussed below. Global Economic Conditions and Financial Crisis The current global economic crisis described below should also be considered when reviewing each of the subsequent paragraphs setting forth the various aspects of our business, operations, and products. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and lower consumer and business spending. Although the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company and our ability to borrow money in the credit markets and potentially to draw on our revolving credit facility or otherwise obtain financing. Similarly, current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand in a timely manner or affect our gross margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations. Manufacturing, Marketing and Distribution Concentrations Bovie manufactures the majority of its products on its premises in St. Petersburg, Florida. Labor-intensive sub-assemblies and labor-intensive products may be out-sourced to our specification. Although we sell through distributors, we market our products through national trade journal advertising, direct mail, distributor sales representatives and trade shows, under the Bovie name, the Bovie/Aaron name and private label. Major distributors include Allegiance (a Cardinal Company), IMCO, McKesson Medical Surgical, Inc., Medline, NDC (Abco, Cida and Starline), Owens & Minor, and Physician Sales & Service. If any of these distributor relationships are terminated or not replaced, our revenue from the territories served by these distributors could be adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We have a major OEM customer, Arthrex, Inc. for which we manufacture products on a private label basis, pursuant to an agreement. On August 31, 2007, we amended and extended this manufacturing agreement for an additional three year period. The amended terms continue to provide that we will be reimbursed for our expenses in developing any changes or modifications to products according to Arthrex’s specifications, and Arthrex continues to own the intellectual property. In addition, general provisions for product warranties, insurance, termination, and confidentiality remain the same. The main change to the amended manufacturing agreement is the elimination of the provision that required Arthrex to exclusively purchase the products from us as well as the elimination of the provision that required us to forego competing in the same Arthrex markets with said products. This amended Arthrex Agreement has termination dates of December 6, 2010 and March 2011 for the generators. In fiscal 2008, Arthrex orders represented approximately 20% of our total revenues. As such, should Arthrex determine to reduce or cease placement of orders for the products, our business will likely be adversely affected. Reliance on Other Collaborative, Manufacturing and Selling Arrangements We are also dependent on other OEM customers because we manufacture products for them; however they have no legal obligation to purchase such products. Should the collaborative customer fail to give us purchase orders for the product after development, our future business and value of related assets could be negatively affected. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that a collaborative customer will give sufficient high priority to our products. Finally, disagreements or disputes may arise between Bovie and its contractual customers, which could adversely affect production of our products. We also have informal collaborative arrangements with three foreign suppliers under which we request the development of certain items and components and we purchase them pursuant to purchase orders. Our purchase order commitments are never more than one year in duration and are supported by orders from our customers. Competition The medical device industry is highly competitive. Many competitors in this industry are well established, do a substantially greater amount of business, and have greater financial resources and facilities than we do. Domestically, we believe we rank third in the number of units sold in the field of electrosurgical generator manufacturing and we sell our products and compete with other manufacturers in various ways. In addition to advertising, attending trade shows and supporting our distribution channels, we strive to enhance product quality, improve user friendliness and expand product exposure. We also compete by private labeling our products for major distributors under their label. This allows us to increase our position in the marketplace and thereby compete from two different approaches, our Aaron or Bovie label, and our customers’ private label. Our private label customers distribute our products under their name through their internal sales force. We believe our main competitors do not private label their products. Lastly, at this time we sell the majority of our products through distributors. Many of the companies we compete with sell direct, thus competing directly with distributors they sometimes use. Main competitors are Conmed, Valleylab (a division of Covidien) and Erbe Electromedizine, in the electrosurgery market, Xomed (a division of Medtronics), in the battery operated cautery market, Salient Surgical Technologies (formerly Tissuelink) in the saline enhanced sintered steel market and Ethicon and U.S. Surgical in the endoscopic instrumentation market. We believe our competitive position did not change in 2008. 6 Table of Contents Government Regulation United States The Company’s products and research and development activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following activities: · Product development. · Product testing. · Product labeling. · Product storage. · Pre-market clearance or approval. · Advertising and promotion. · Product traceability, and · Product indications. In the United States, medical devices are classified on the basis of control deemed necessary to reasonably ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. Class I devices are subject to general controls. These controls include registration and listing, labeling, pre-market notification and adherence to the FDA Quality System Regulation. Class II devices are subject to general and special controls. Special controls include performance standards, post market surveillance, patient registries and FDA guidelines. Class III devices are those which must receive pre-market approval by the FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness. Currently, we only manufacture Class I and Class II devices. Pre-market notification clearance must be obtained for some Class I and most Class II devices when the FDA does not require pre-market approval. All Bovie Medical products have been cleared by the Pre-market notification process. To date, the FDA has not failed to clear any devices we have submitted. A pre-market approval application is required for most Class III devices. A pre-market approval application must be supported by valid scientific evidence to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device. The pre-market approval application typically includes: · Results of bench and laboratory tests, animal studies, and clinical studies · A complete description of the device and its components · A detailed description of the methods, facilities and controls used to manufacture the device, and proposed labeling. The pre-market approval process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy. A number of devices for which pre-market approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. Manufacturing Manufacturing and distribution of our products may be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. We will also be subject to routine inspections by the FDA to determine compliance with the following: · Quality system regulations. · Medical device reporting regulations, and · FDA restrictions on promoting products for unapproved or off-label uses. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulations under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act and other federal, state and local regulations. International Regulation To market products in the European Union, our products must bear the “CE” mark. Manufacturers of medical devices bearing the CE mark have gone through a conformity assessment process that assures that products are manufactured in compliance with a recognized quality system and to comply with the European Medical Devices Directive. Each device that bears a CE mark has an associated Technical File that includes a description of the following: 7 Table of Contents · Description of the device and its components, . A summary of how the device complies with the essential requirements of the medical devices directive, · Safety (risk assessment) and performance of the device, · Clinical evaluations with respect to the device, · Methods, facilities and quality controls used to manufacture the device, and · Proposed labeling for the device. Manufacturing and distribution of a device is subject to ongoing surveillance by the Notified Body to ensure continued compliance with quality system and reporting requirements. We began CE marking of devices for sale in the European Union in 1999. In addition to the requirement to CE mark, each member country of the European Union maintains the right to impose additional regulatory requirements. Outside of the European Union, regulations vary significantly from country to country. The time required to obtain approval to market products may be longer or shorter than that required in the United States or the European Union. Certain European countries outside of the European Union do recognize and give effect to the CE mark certification. We are permitted to market and sell our products in those countries. Patents and Trademarks We have twenty patents and trademarks; however we do not believe the patents and trademarks have a material effect on our operations as their remaining useful lives are minimal. We can give no assurance that competitors will not infringe on our patent rights or otherwise create similar or non-infringing competing products that are technically patentable in their own right. We have recently filed new patent applications for various new products including a scanning cannula, modular laparoscopic and endoscopic instruments, the output stage to our generator platform, our ICON product line and a Plasma Stream patent application relating to the plasma technology. Liability and Insurance The manufacture and sale of medical products entail significant risks of product liability claims. Bovie currently maintains product liability insurance with combined coverage limits of $10 million on a claims made basis. There is no assurance that this coverage will be adequate to protect us from any possible liabilities we might incur in connection with the sale or testing of our products. In addition, we may need increased product liability coverage as products are commercialized. This insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Adverse Weather Our manufacturing facilities are located in St. Petersburg, Florida and could be affected by multiple weather risks, most notably hurricanes (one of which previously caused damage to the roof of one of our buildings as well as some of our furniture and equipment). The damage was mildly disruptive to operations. Although we carry casualty insurance and business interruption insurance, future possible disruptions of operations due to hurricanes or other weather risks could affect our ability to meet our commitments to our customers and impair important business relationships, the loss of which could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Research and Development Our research and development activities are an essential component of our efforts to develop new innovative products for introduction in the marketplace. New and improved products play a critical role in the Company’s sales growth. The Company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. We maintain close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and areas of development. Our research and development activities are primarily developed internally and are expensed as incurred. These expenses include direct expenses for wages, materials and services associated with the development of our products net of any reimbursements from customers. Research and development expenses do not include any portion of general and administrative expenses. The Company has two complementary facilities that both contribute to a centralized research and development focus. Our St. Petersburg, FL facility has been our flagship research and design location, followed later by our addition of the Canadian facility in October 2006. Currently both facilities are working synergistically developing our new products the ICON GP/VS and ICON GS, as well as the accompanying Endoscopic Modular Instruments, the Polarian handle and accessories. We expect to make future investments to enable us to develop new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing business. However, we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments will be successful. 8 Table of Contents The amount expended by us on research and development of our products during the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, totaled approximately $2.1, $1.6, and $1.0 million respectively. During the past three years, we invested in the J Plasma technology, currently used in one of our new products under development, the ICON GS plasma system. In addition, we invested in the SEER and BOSS devices, Endoscopic Modular Instruments and undertook development of Cardio and Urological Electrosurgical devices for a contractual partner. We have not incurred any direct costs relating to environmental regulations or requirements. For 2009 we expect our expenditures for research and development activities to remain around the same level as 2008. Foreign Currency Risk We operate internationally and enter into transactions denominated in foreign currencies (most notably the Canadian dollar and the Euro). To date, we have not hedged our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and as a result, we are subject to foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses. We purchase goods and services in U.S. and Canadian dollars and have recently begun to invoice certain product sales in Euros. Foreign exchange risk is managed primarily by satisfying foreign denominated expenditures with cash flows or assets denominated in the same currency. We charged $88,464 to accumulated other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 as a result of changes in the relationship of the U.S. dollar to the Canadian dollar using the re-measurement method of translating our Canadian subsidiary’s financial statements into U.S. dollars. Other foreign currency transaction gains amounted to $4,505. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no outstanding unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 