ITEM 1A. Risk factors In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business, important risk factors are discussed in the sub-paragraphs below entitled Manufacturing, Marketing and Distribution, Competition, Government Regulation, Manufacturing, International Regulation, Patents and Trademarks, Liability and Insurance, and Adverse Weather. Manufacturing, Marketing and Distribution Bovie manufactures the majority of its products on its premises in St. Petersburg, Florida. Labor-intensive sub-assemblies and labor-intensive products may be out-sourced to our specification. Although we sell through distributors, we market our products through national trade journal advertising, direct mail, distributor sales representatives and trade shows, under the Bovie name, the Bovie/Aaron name and private label. Major distributors include Allegiance (a Cardinal Company), IMCO, McKesson Medical Surgical, Inc., NDC (Abco, Cida and Starline), Owens & Minor, and Physician Sales & Service. We have two major OEM customers, Arthrex, Inc. and Medtronic, Inc., for which we manufacture products on a private label basis, pursuant to an agreement. The Arthrex, Inc agreement provides, among other things, that we will be reimbursed for our expenses in developing products according to Arthrex’s specifications. Arthrex owns the intellectual property, which was developed based on our technical know-how. We may not generally compete in Arthrex markets with the product developed. The agreement further provides that Arthrex is not obliged to place any orders for the product developed, but if it does seek to place orders, it must place them exclusively with us. The agreement also generally provides for product warranties, insurance, termination, and confidentiality. Subject to certain circumstances, the Arthrex Agreement has a termination date of November 2007 (the “Termination Date”). However, the Agreement further provides that if neither party elects to terminate by May 2007, the Agreement shall extend for an additional 3-year period beyond the Termination Date. In fiscal 2006, Arthrex orders represented approximately 22% of our total revenues. As such, should Arthrex determine to reduce or cease placement of orders for the products, our business will likely be adversely affected. 5 Our agreement with Medtronic, Inc. contains similar terms for reimbursement of expenses for developing products according to Medtronic’s specifications, product warranties, insurance, termination, and confidentiality. Medtronic also owns the intellectual property, which was developed based on our technical know-how. We may not generally compete with the products developed in Medtronic’s markets. In addition, under the agreement Medtronic is not obliged to place any orders for the product developed, but if it does seek to place orders, it must place them exclusively with us. In fiscal 2006, Medtronic orders represented approximately 11% of our total revenues. As such, should Medtronic determine to reduce or cease placement of orders for the products, our business will likely be adversely affected. Competition The medical device industry is highly competitive. Many competitors in this industry are well established, do a substantially greater amount of business, and have greater financial resources and facilities than we do. We believe we rank third in the field of electrosurgical generator manufacturing and we sell our products and compete with other manufacturers in various ways. In addition to advertising, attending trade shows and supporting our distribution channels, we strive to enhance product quality, improve user friendliness and expand product exposure. We also compete by private labeling our products for major distributors under their label. This allows us to increase our position in the marketplace and thereby compete from two different approaches, our Aaron or Bovie label, and our customers’ private label. Our private label customers distribute our products under their name through their internal sales force. Our main competitors do not private label their products Lastly, we only sell our product through distributors. Since we never sell direct to the end user, we are participating with our distribution partners, and never competing with them. Many of the companies we compete with sell direct, thus competing directly with distributors they sometimes use. Main competitors are Conmed, Valleylab (a division of Tyco) and Erbe Electromedizine, in the electrosurgery market, Xomed (a division of Medtronics), in the battery operated cautery market and Ethicon and U.S. Surgical in the endoscopic instrumentation market. We believe our competitive position did not change in 2006. Government Regulation United States The Company’s products and research and development activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following activities: · Product development. · Product testing. · Product labeling. · Product storage. · Pre-market clearance or approval. · Advertising and promotion. · Product traceability, and · Product indications. In the United States, medical devices are classified on the basis of control deemed necessary to reasonably ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. Class I devices are subject to general controls. These controls include registration and listing, labeling, pre-market notification and adherence to the FDA Quality System Regulation. Class II devices are subject to general and special controls. Special controls include performance standards, post market surveillance, patient registries and FDA guidelines. Class III devices are 6 those which must receive pre-market approval by the FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness. Currently, we only manufacture Class I and Class II devices. Pre-market notification clearance must be obtained for some Class I and most Class II devices when the FDA does not require pre-market approval. Manufacturing Manufacturing and distribution of our products may be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. We will also be subject to routine inspections by the FDA to determine compliance with the following: · Quality System Regulations. · Medical device reporting regulations, and · FDA restrictions on promoting products for unapproved or off-label uses. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulations under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act and other federal, state and local regulations. International Regulation To market products in the European Union and countries other than the United States, we must obtain regulatory approval similar to that required by the FDA. All of our medical devices are classified as Class III devices under the European Medical Devices directive. Therefore, we were required to obtain the “CE Mark” certification from a “Notified Body” in one of the member countries in the European Union. The CE Mark certification is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with the applicable European Medical Devices Directive. Approval by a Notified Body typically includes a detailed review of the following: · Description of the device and its components, · Safety and performance of the device, · Clinical evaluations with respect to the device, · Methods, facilities and quality controls used to manufacture the device, and · Proposed labeling for the device. Manufacturing and distribution of a device is subject to continued surveillance by the Notified Body after CE Mark certification to ensure continued compliance with quality control and reporting requirements. Pre-market notification clearance must be obtained for some Class I and most Class II devices when the FDA does not require pre-market approval. A pre-market approval application is required for most Class III devices. A pre-market approval application must be supported by valid scientific evidence to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device. The pre-market approval application typically includes: · Results of bench and laboratory tests, animal studies, and clinical studies, · A complete description of the device and its components, · A detailed description of the methods, facilities and controls used to manufacture the device, and proposed labeling. The approval process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy. A number of devices for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. To date we have not experienced non-approval of any of our devices heretofore submitted to the FDA. We obtained CE Mark certification to market our products in the European Union in 1999. In addition to CE Mark certification, each member country of the European Union maintains the right to impose additional regulatory requirements. 7 Outside of the European Union, regulations vary significantly from country to country. The time required to obtain approval to market products may be longer or shorter than that required in the United States or the European Union. Certain European countries outside of the European Union do recognize and give effect to the CE Mark certification. We are permitted to market and sell our products in those countries. Patents and Trademarks We own a total of twelve outstanding patents but do not believe our current patents have a material effect on our operations. The useful lives of our existing patents have substantially diminished. We can give no assurance that competitors will not infringe on our patent rights or otherwise create similar or non-infringing competing products that are technically patentable in their own right. We have recently filed new patent applications for the Bovie Button, a snare device (GI accessory products), modular laparoscopic instruments, the output stage to our generator platform, and a Plasma Stream patent application relating to the plasma technology. We also plan to file new trademark applications relating to our other GI products later this year. Liability and Insurance The manufacture and sale of medical products entail significant risk of product liability claims. Bovie currently maintains product liability insurance with combined coverage limits of $10 million on claims made basis. There is no assurance that this coverage will be adequate to protect us from any possible liabilities we might incur in connection with the sale or testing of our products. In addition, we may need increased product liability coverage as products are commercialized. This insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Adverse Weather Our manufacturing facilities are located in St. Petersburg, Florida and could be affected due to multiple risks from fire, hurricanes and the like. In the recent past, Florida has sustained four (4) major hurricanes, the last of which occasioned damage to the roof of one of our buildings. We sustained flooding and loss of furniture and equipment. The damage was mildly disruptive to operations. Although we carry casualty insurance and business interruption insurance, future possible disruptions of operations due to hurricanes or fire could affect our ability to meet our commitments to our customers and impair important business relationships, the loss of which could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Research and Development The amount expended by us on research and development of our products during the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, totaled $1,048,175, $985,807 and $907,389 respectively. We have not incurred any direct costs relating to environmental regulations or requirements. Our research and development costs for our products are not borne by our customers. Employees Presently Bovie has a total of approximately 161 full time employees. These consist of 5 executive officers, 24 supervisory and managerial personnel, 8 sales, 124 technical support administrative and factory employees. Significant Subsidiaries Aaron Medical Industries, Inc., is a Florida Corporation with offices in St. Petersburg, Florida. It is principally engaged in the business of marketing our medical products. 8 Bovie Canada ULC is an Alberta, Canada Corporation with its facility located in Windsor, Ontario. The principal function of this facility is product development and manufacturing focused mainly on endoscopic devices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no outstanding unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 