ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future liquidity is uncertain Based on current levels of sales and expenses, and based on management's forecast of operations in the near future, management believes that cash and cash equivalents remain adequate to meet current operating needs. The cash forecasts are based on projections that may or may not be realized, and therefore actual cash usage could be greater than projected. In this circumstance, the Company could encounter a need to obtain additional funds from outside sources. If such additional working capital is required, there are no assurances that such financing sources will be available on favorable terms to the Company, if at all. Customer orders and production of new product platform The Company invested heavily in the development of its new product platform, the Advanced Signal Generation system. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 two customers accepted their initial units of the Advanced Signal Generation System. Longer than anticipated sales cycles in fiscal 2016, or delays in production and shipping volume quantities, could significantly contribute to additional losses. 8 Ability to stay listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market If the Company’s shareholders’ equity falls below $2.5 million, The Nasdaq Stock Market could delist the Company from The Nasdaq Capital Market. On February 20, 2015, the Company received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market informing the Company that a Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”) determined that the Company had regained compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(1), the minimum stockholders’ equity rule (the “Stockholders’ Equity Rule”). As a result, the Panel determined that the Company is in compliance with all applicable listing standards required for listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, and accordingly, the Panel has determined to continue the listing of the Company’s securities on The Nasdaq Stock Market. However, because the Company has met compliance with the Stockholders’ Equity Rule by a relatively small margin, the Panel has imposed a Panel Monitor to monitor the Company’s continued compliance with the Stockholders’ Equity Rule until February 27, 2016. The Company is under certain notification obligations during this time period, including the obligation to notify the Panel Monitor if it fails to comply with the Stockholders’ Equity Rule or any other applicable listing requirement. If the Company’s Common Stock ceases to be listed for trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market, the Company expects that its Common Stock would be traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board on or about the same day. Giga-tronics’ sales are substantially dependent on the defense industry Giga-tronics has a significant number of defense-related orders. If the defense market demand decreases, actual shipments could be less than projected shipments with a resulting decline in sales. The Company’s product backlog has a number of risks and uncertainties such as the cancellation or deferral of orders, dispute over performance and the Company’s ability to collect amounts due under these orders. If any of these events occur, actual shipments could be lower than projected shipments and revenues could decline. Giga-tronics’ markets involve rapidly changing technology and standards The market for electronics equipment is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. Giga-tronics believes that its future success will depend in part upon its ability to develop and commercialize its existing products, and in part to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products and product lines with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance existing products. There can be no assurance that Giga-tronics will successfully complete the development of current or future products, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. The inability to develop new products in a timely manner could have a material adverse impact on operating performance and liquidity. Giga-tronics’ common stock price is volatile The market price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, reduction in revenues or lower earnings or increased losses and reduced levels of liquidity when compared to previous quarterly periods, and other factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by Giga-tronics or by competitors, government regulations or developments in patent or other proprietary rights. In addition, NASDAQ and other stock markets have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. Some of these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the reported operating performance of the specific companies whose stocks are traded. Broad market fluctuations, as well as general foreign and domestic economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Giga-tronics stock at any time has historically traded on low volume on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Sales of a significant volume of stock could result in a decline of Giga-tronics’ share price. Performance problems in Giga-tronics’ products or problems arising from the use of its products together with other vendors’ products may harm its business and reputation Products as complex as those Giga-tronics produces may contain unknown and undetected defects or performance problems. For example, it is possible that a product might not comply with stipulated specifications under all circumstances. In addition, Giga-tronics’ customers generally use its products together with their own products and products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. A defect or performance problem could result in lost revenues, increased warranty costs, diversion of engineering and management time and effort, impaired customer relationships and injury to Giga-tronics’ reputation generally. To date, performance problems in Giga-tronics’ products or in other products used together with Giga-tronics’ products have not had a material adverse effect on its business. However, management cannot be certain that a material adverse impact will not occur in the future. 9 Giga-tronics’ competition has greater resources The Company’s instrument, switch, oscillator and synthesizer products compete with Agilent/Keysight, Anritsu, EADS Company, Aeroflex (now Cobham Plc) and Rohde & Schwarz. All of these companies have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, and technological personnel and managerial resources than Giga-tronics. These resources also make these competitors better able to withstand difficult market conditions than the Company. There can be no assurance that any products developed by the competitors will not gain greater market acceptance than any developed by Giga-tronics. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 