Risk Factors. Regulations Domestic exploration for and the production, sale and transportation of oil and natural gas are extensively regulated at the federal, state and local levels. Legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, extensive rules and regulations applicable to the oil and natural gas industry. Compliance with these regulations is costly. In addition, there are substantial penalties for failure to comply. To add to the difficulty in compliance, the interpretation and enforcement of these regulations is not always constant or uniform. State regulatory authorities have established rules and regulations requiring permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reporting requirements applicable to exploration and production operations. All states in which we operate also have statutes and regulations concerning conservation matters, including the conditions and requirements applicable to the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells and the number of wells which may be drilled in a certain area or formation. Production operations are also affected by changing tax and other laws. As a member of the oil and gas industry, we are subject to extensive and evolving environmental laws and regulations. These regulations are administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and various other federal, state, and local environmental, zoning, health and safety agencies, many of which periodically examine our operations to monitor compliance with such laws and regulations. Among other subjects, these regulations address the release of waste materials into the environment and the transportation, storage and disposal of petroleum products and generally are designed to protect the environment and human, animal and plant health. Compliance with these regulatory requirements affects our operations and costs. In recent years, environmental regulations have increasingly taken a cradle to grave approach to waste management, regulating and creating liabilities for the waste at its inception to final disposition. Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations are subject to numerous environmental programs, including solid and hazardous waste management, water protection, air emission controls and situs controls affecting wetlands, coastal operations and antiquities. Further, each state in which we operate has its own unique laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, along with regulations governing the environmental effects of oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations. 8 Table of Contents Environmental regulatory programs typically focus on permitting, construction and operations of a facility. Many factors, including public perception, can materially impact the ability to secure an environmental construction or operation permit. Once a permit is received and a facility is operational, enforcement measures can result in the imposition of significant civil penalties for any regulatory violations regardless of intent or effort to comply. Under appropriate circumstances, an administrative agency can issue a cease and desist order requiring suspension of operations. New programs and changes in existing programs are anticipated, some of which include naturally occurring radioactive materials (“NORM”), oil and natural gas exploration and production waste management, underground injection of waste material and emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” including carbon dioxide and methane, which according to recent studies may be contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to these studies, President Obama has expressed support for, and it is anticipated that the current session of Congress will consider, legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases. Many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. In this regard, the Environmental Protection Agency may regulate greenhouse gas emissions even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. In July 2008, EPA released an “Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Although the notice did not propose any specific, new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. We are also subject to federal and state Hazard Communications and Community Right to Know statutes and regulations. These regulations govern record keeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances. We believe we are in compliance with these requirements in all material respects. We may be required in the future to make substantial expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Other than to note that the regulation of the oil and gas industry and the cost of compliance are likely to increase in the future, the specific additional changes in operating procedures and expenditures required to comply with future laws dealing with the protection of the environment cannot be predicted. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 16 full-time employees. We hire independent contractors on an as needed basis. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees. We believe that our employee relationships are satisfactory. ITEM 1A. Risk factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, which may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a substantial reduction in these prices could adversely affect our results and the price of our common stock. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil and natural gas production. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The markets and prices for crude oil and natural gas depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for crude oil and natural gas, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; · actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; · the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories; · the price and level of foreign imports; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure; · the availability of crude oil transportation and refining capacity; · weather conditions; · electricity dispatch; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and · the overall economic environment. 9 Table of Contents Significant declines in crude oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may have the following effects on our business: · limiting our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; · reducing the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; · causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; · reducing our revenues, operating income and cash flows; · reducing the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties; or · limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debt. Oil and gas drilling is a speculative activity and risky. We are engaged in the business of oil and natural gas exploration, production and operations and the development of productive oil and gas wells. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future drilling program. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Although we believe that the use of 3-D seismic data and other advanced technology should increase the probability of success of our wells and should reduce average finding costs through elimination of prospects that might otherwise be drilled solely on the basis of 2-D seismic data and other traditional methods, drilling remains an inexact and speculative activity. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic data and such technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies and we could incur losses because of such expenditures. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Although we may discuss drilling prospects that have been identified or budgeted for, we may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. We may identify prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include interpretation of 3-D or other seismic data. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including (i) the results of exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data, (ii) the availability of sufficient capital resources and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects, (iii) the approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled, (iv) economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews, (v) our financial resources and results (vi) the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects and (vii) the payment of royalties to lessors. There can be no assurance that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Failure to fund continued capital expenditures could adversely affect our properties. Our acquisition, exploration, and development activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and loans from commercial banks and related parties. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of crude oil and natural gas, and our success in finding, developing and producing new reserves. If revenues were to decrease as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves, resulting in a decrease in production over time. If our cash flows from operations are not sufficient to meet our obligations and fund our capital budget, we may not be able to access debt, equity or other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet these requirements, particularly in the current economic environment. If we are not able to fund our capital expenditures, interests in some properties might be reduced or forfeited as a result. The current recession could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The oil and gas industry is cyclical in nature and tends to reflect general economic conditions. Economic analysts have stated that the U.S. and other world economies are in a recession that could last well into 2009 and beyond. The recession may lead to significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for our crude oil and natural gas production, such as the decline in commodity prices that occurred during 2008 and into 2009. Our profitability will likely be significantly affected by decreased demand and lower commodity prices. Due to lower commodity prices, we recorded asset impairment charges during fourth quarter 2008. If commodity prices continue to decline, there could be additional impairments of our operating assets. Our future access to capital, as well as that of our partners and contractors, could be limited due to tightening credit markets that could inhibit development of our property interests. Some of our longer-term projects require significant investment and may be delayed due to capital constraints. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or assumptions underlying our reserve estimates could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. 10 Table of Contents There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control that could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated. The reserve information included or incorporated by reference in this report represents estimates prepared by our internal engineers. The procedures and methods for estimating the reserves by our internal engineers were reviewed by an independent petroleum engineering firm. Estimation of reserves is not an exact science. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any of which may cause these estimates to vary considerably from actual results, such as: · historical production from an area compared with production from similar producing areas; · assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; · assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs and capital expenditures; and · estimates of future severance and excise taxes, workover and remedial costs. Estimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected future net cash flows prepared or audited by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and the variance may be material. The net present values referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration activities. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future acquisition, development and exploration activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors. These factors include recoverable reserves, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities, title issues and other factors. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with such assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe is thorough. However, there is no assurance that such a review will reveal all existing or potential problems or allow us to fully assess the deficiencies and capabilities of such properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties at acceptable prices because the competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us. There is a possibility that we will lose the leases to our oil and gas properties. Our oil and gas revenues are generated through leases to the oil and gas properties. These leases are conditioned on the performance of certain obligations, primarily the obligation to produce oil and/or gas or engage in operations designed to result in the production of oil and gas. If production ceases and operations are not commenced within a specified time, the lease may be lost. The loss of our leases may have a material impact on our revenues. In the case of Israeli based properties, we have licenses that, subject to certain conditions, may result in leases being granted. The leases are subject to certain obligations and are renewable at the discretion of various governmental authorities. As such, we may not be able to fulfill our obligations under the leases, which may result in the modification, or cancellation of such leases or such leases may not be renewed or may be renewed on terms different from the current leases. The modification or cancellation of our leases may have a material impact on our revenues. Our business is highly competitive. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in many respects, including identification of attractive oil and natural gas properties for acquisition, drilling and development, securing financing for such activities and obtaining the necessary equipment and personnel to conduct such operations and activities. In seeking suitable opportunities, we compete with a number of other companies, including large oil and natural gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial resources, larger numbers of personnel and facilities, and with more expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with these entities. Our business may be affected by oil and gas price volatility. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under our Senior Credit Agreements will be subject to periodic redetermination based in part on current oil and natural gas prices and on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. 11 Table of Contents Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are: · the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for oil and natural gas; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; · political instability, armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; · the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as India and China; · labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; · weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas; · the price and availability of alternative and competing fuels; · the price and level of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs; and · worldwide economic conditions. Our commercial lenders have liens on substantially all of our oil and gas assets in the United States and could foreclose in the event that we default under our credit facilities. Under the terms of our credit facilities with our commercial lenders, our lenders have a first priority lien on substantially all of our oil and gas assets in the United States. If we default under the credit facility, our lender would be entitled to, among other things, foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may expose us to other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we have entered into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · our actual production is less than hedged volumes; · there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or · the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. 12 Table of Contents The current economic crisis may have a negative impact on the liquidity of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements, which increases the risk of those counterparties failing to perform under those agreements. If those parties do fail to perform, we will be exposed to the price risks we had sought to mitigate and our operating results, financial position and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2008 approximately 78%, 80%, 71% and 12% of our forecasted oil production and natural gas liquids hedged for 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively and approximately 81%, 82%, 39% and 12% of our forecasted gas production hedged for the same time frame. We have no means to market our oil and gas production without the assistance of third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third party services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could impair or delay the production of new wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in, delay or discontinuance could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, regulation of oil and natural gas production transportation in the United States or in other countries may affect its ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas on a profitable basis. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and/or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas may increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks that are beyond our control. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include: · human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities; · blowouts, fires, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; · unavailability of materials and equipment; · engineering and construction delays; · unanticipated transportation costs and delays; · unfavorable weather conditions; · hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; · environmental regulations and requirements; · accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; · changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced; · fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; and · the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available. 13 Table of Contents We do not insure against all potential losses and could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected liabilities. The exploration for, and production of, natural gas and crude oil can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, injure or kill people, and damage property and the environment. Moreover, our onshore operations are subject to customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. The occurrence of any of these events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events would reduce the funds available to us for our exploration, development and production activities and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and our management is required to issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the effectiveness of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. We have discovered certain deficiencies in the design and/or operation of our internal controls that could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data. We have invested and will continue to invest significant resources in this process. We are uncertain as to what impact this conclusion that deficiencies exist in our internal controls over financial reporting would have on the trading price of our common stock. Governmental and environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. Our operations are also subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various jurisdictions in which we have or expect to have oil and natural gas operations. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in any of the following ways: · from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; · from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; · damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and · blowouts, hurricanes and explosions. Assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due significantly to acquisitions of producing properties and underdeveloped leaseholds. We expect acquisitions may also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise in the future. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. Because of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally conduct due diligence to review title on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is due to title defects is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. 14 Table of Contents We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators to a significant extent. The success of the drilling, development and production of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have or expect to have a non-operating working interest is substantially dependent upon the decisions of such third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. Such adverse consequences could result in substantial liabilities to us or reduce the value of our properties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations in Israel may be adversely affected by economic and political developments. We have interests in oil and gas leases and in oil and gas licenses in the waters off Israel. These interests may be adversely affected by political and economic developments, including the following: · war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances, · changes in taxation policies, · laws and policies of the US and Israel affecting foreign investment, taxation, trade and business conduct, · foreign exchange restrictions, · international monetary fluctuations and changes in the value of the US dollar, such as the decline of the US dollar and · other hazards arising out of Israeli governmental sovereignty over areas in which we own oil and gas interests. Rapid growth may place significant demands and resources. We experienced rapid growth in operations occasioned by the purchase of approximately 650 producing oil and gas wells in March 2007 from Five States Energy Company, LLC and approximately 590 producing oil and gas wells from GFB and Trans Republic in March 2008. We expect that significant expansion of our operations will continue. The rapid growth has placed, and the anticipated future growth will continue to place, a significant demand on our managerial, operational and financial resources due to: · the need to manage relationships with various strategic partners and other third parties; · difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled personnel necessary to support our business; · the need to merge the operations of the acquired properties into our existing operations, accounting and management systems; · the need to train and manage a growing employee base; and · pressures for the continued development of our financial and information management systems. If we have not made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with our expansion or if its systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations, our business could be adversely impacted. 15 Table of Contents Members of Isramco’s management team own a significant amount of common stock, giving them influence or control in corporate transactions and other matters, and the interests of these individuals could differ from those other shareholders. Members of our management team beneficially own approximately 51.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 20, 2009. As a result, these shareholders are in a position to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of an amendment to our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Our stock price is volatile and could continue to be volatile and has limited liquidity; Accordingly, investors may not be able to sell any significant number of shares of our stock at prevailing market prices. Investor interest in our common stock may not lead to the development of an active or liquid trading market. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The stock prices and trading volumes for our stock has fluctuated widely and the average daily trading volume of our stock continues to be limited and may continue for reasons that may be unrelated to business or results of operations. General economic, market and political conditions could also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price. As a result of the limited trading in our stock, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 