Item 1A. RISK FACTORS — continued Our ability to meet contingency funding needs, in the event of a crisis that causes a disruption to our core deposit base, is dependent on access to wholesale markets, including funds provided by the FHLB of Pittsburgh. We own stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow on our line of credit with the FHLB that is secured by a blanket lien on a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Changes or disruptions to the FHLB or the FHLB system in general may materially impact our ability to meet short and long-term liquidity needs or meet growth plans. Additionally, we cannot be assured that the FHLB will be able to provide funding to us when needed, nor can we be certain that the FHLB will provide funds specifically to us, should our financial condition and/or our regulators prevent access to our line of credit. The inability to access this source of funds could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet our customer’s needs. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we were unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Risks Related to Our Owning Our Stock Our outstanding warrant may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock may be diluted to the extent our outstanding warrant is exercised. The warrant will remain outstanding until 2019. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 1.71 percent of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2014 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). The warrant holder has the right to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited. Holders of our common stock will be entitled to receive only such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce, suspend or eliminate our dividend at any time. Any decrease or elimination to the dividends on our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 