Risk Factors. Regulations We do not have any offshore operations. However, all of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate oil and natural gas properties regulate exploration for and production of oil and natural gas. These laws and regulations include provisions requiring permits to drill wells and requirements that we obtain and maintain a bond or other security as a condition to drilling or operating wells. Regulations also specify the permitted location of and method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in a given area, and the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, as well as regulations that generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the establishment of maximum allowable rates of production from fields and individual wells. The effect of these regulations is to potentially limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations or to have reductions in well spacing. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Each state in which we operate also imposes some form of production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction. We are liable for paying this tax on our production, and are also liable for various real and personal property taxes on our leases and facilities. 9 Table of Contents Environmental Regulations The oil and gas industry in the United States is subject to stringent federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety or the protection of the environment. Many governmental agencies, such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) have issued lengthy and comprehensive regulations to implement and enforce these laws. These laws and regulations often require difficult and costly compliance measures. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting our activities. In addition, some laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering a person liable for environmental damages and cleanup costs without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. We endeavor to fully comply with these regulatory requirements; however, compliance increases our costs and consequently affects our profitability. As a party of the overall environmental regulatory policy, the permitting, construction and operations of certain oil and gas facilities are regulated. Many factors, including public perception, can materially impact the ability to secure an environmental construction or operation permit. Once operational, enforcement measures can include significant civil penalties for regulatory violations, regardless of intent. Under appropriate circumstances, an administrative agency can issue a cease and desist order to require termination of operations. Environmental regulation is becoming more comprehensive and additional programs, as well as increased obligations under existing programs, are anticipated. In this regard, we expect additional regulation of naturally occurring radioactive materials, oil and natural gas exploration and production operations, waste management, and underground injection water and waste material. The adoption of additional regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and Hazardous Substances In 1980, the United States Congress enacted the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, referred to as CERCLA or the Superfund law. This law, which has been amended since enactment, and comparable state laws impose strict liability, without regard to fault, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of what are considered to be “hazardous substances” into the environment. These persons include the current or former owners or operators of the sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. Under CERCLA, we may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up hazardous substances that have been released into the environment whether or not we are responsible for the release or even owned the site at the time of the release, as well as for damages to natural resources and for the costs of health studies. In addition, companies that incur liability frequently confront additional claims because it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. The Solid Waste Disposal Act and Waste Management The federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, referred to as RCRA, regulates the disposal of solid waste but generally excludes most wastes generated by the exploration and production of oil and natural gas, such as drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas from regulation as hazardous wastes. However, these wastes may be regulated by the EPA or state agencies as non-hazardous wastes as long as these wastes are not commingled with regulated hazardous wastes. Moreover, in the ordinary course of our operations, other wastes generated in connection with our exploration and production activities may be regulated as hazardous waste under RCRA or hazardous substances under CERCLA. From time to time, releases of materials or wastes have occurred at locations we own or at which we have operations. These properties and the materials or wastes released thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under these laws, we have been and may be required to remove or remediate these materials or wastes. At this time it is not possible to estimate the potential liabilities to which we may be subject from unknown, latent liability risks with respect to any properties where materials or wastes may have been released, but of which we have not been made aware. 10 Table of Contents The Clean Water Act, wastewater and storm water discharges The oil and gas industry, and our operations, are subject to the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws. Under the Clean Water Act, the EPA has adopted regulations concerning discharges of storm water runoff. This program requires covered facilities to obtain individual permits, or seek coverage under a general permit. Some of our properties may require permits for discharges of storm water runoff and, as part of our overall evaluation of our current operations, we may apply for storm water discharge permit coverage and updating storm water discharge management practices at some of our facilities. We believe that we will be able to obtain, or be included under, these permits, where necessary, and be required make only minor modifications to existing facilities and operations that would not have a material effect on us. The Clean Water Act and similar state acts regulate other discharges of wastewater, oil, and other pollutants to surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, wetlands, and streams. Failure to obtain permits for such discharges could result in civil and criminal penalties, orders to cease such discharges, and costs to remediate and pay natural resources damages. These laws also require the preparation and implementation of Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. More specifically, we are required to develop and maintain a plan applicable to each of our properties at which any significant volume of crude oil or other substance is stored and to ensure the site has sufficient protections (such as berms, etc.) to ensure that any spill will be contained and not reach navigable waters. The Safe Drinking Water Act, groundwater protection, and the Underground Injection Control Program The federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SWDA), the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated under the SWDA and state programs all regulate the drilling and operation of salt water disposal wells. EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. This program requires that a permit be obtained before drilling salt water disposal well. Monitoring the integrity of well casing must also be conducted periodically to ensure the casing is not leaking saltwater to groundwater. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by oil and natural gas drilling, production, and related operations may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. We have not heretofore engaged in extensive hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services of the wells for which we are the operator and when we do we engage third parties to conduct these operations on our behalf. On June 9, 2009, legislation entitled the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals (FRAC) Act of 2009 was introduced in the United States Senate (Senate Bill number 1215) and House of Representatives (House Bill number 2766). Sponsors of this legislation assert that chemicals used in the fracturing process may adversely affect drinking water supplies. This legislation would repeal the existing exemption for hydraulic fracturing in the SDWA and could require the EPA to promulgate regulations to establish a permit procedure and to implementpotential new restrictions applicable to hydraulic fracturing. This could, in turn, require state regulatory agencies in states with programs delegated under the SDWA to impose additional requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. The current proposal would require persons using hydraulic fracturing to disclose the chemical constituents of their fracturing fluids to a regulatory agency, which would then make the information public via the internet. This could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process are impairing or could impair groundwater or cause other damage. This legislation, if adopted, would establish an additional level of regulation at the federal or state level and could lead to operational delays and/or increased operating costs, all of which would increase our regulatory burdens, make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states have adopted, or are considering, similar disclosure legislation on their own. The Clean Air Act The federal Clean Air Act, enacted in 1970, and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. The EPA has developed and continues to develop stringent regulations under the authority of the Clean Air Act governing emissions of toxic air pollutants from specified sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. 11 Table of Contents Some of our operations are located in areas designated as “non-attainment” areas, which are geographic areas that do not meet the federal air quality standards. Air emission controls and requirements in non-attainment areas are generally more stringent that those imposed in other areas, and the construction of new, or expansion of existing, sources may be restricted. Certain of our operations, or the operations of service companies engaged by us, may be subject to permits and restrictions under these statutes for emissions of air pollutants. In this regard, the EPA proposed in a consent decree, which has not been approved by a federal court, that by January 31, 2011 it will issue a proposal to revise its national emissions standards for hazardous air pollution for crude oil and natural gas production, as well as gas transmission and storage as well as new source performance standards for oil and gas production. Climate change legislation and greenhouse gas regulation The issue of “global warming” has attracted significant attention and many believe that emissions of certain gases contribute to this problem. Many nations have agreed to limit emissions of “greenhouse gases” pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the “Kyoto Protocol.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of the burning of oil, natural gas, and refined petroleum products, are considered “greenhouse gases” regulated by the Kyoto Protocol. Although the United States is not participating in the Kyoto Protocol, several states have adopted legislation and regulations to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Restrictions on emissions of methane or carbon dioxide that may be imposed in various states could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. Additionally, the United States Supreme Court has ruled, in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, that the EPA abused its discretion under the Clean Air Act by refusing to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from mobile sources. As a result of the Supreme Court decision and the change in presidential administrations, on December 7, 2009, the EPA issued a finding that many believe serves as the foundation under the Clean Air Act to issue other rules that could result in the promulgation of federal greenhouse gas regulations and emissions limits under the Clean Air Act, even without Congressional action. As part of this array of new regulations, on September 22, 2009, the EPA also issued a greenhouse gasmonitoring and reporting rule that requires certain parties, including participants in the oil and natural gas industry, to monitor and report their greenhouse gas emissions, including methane and carbon dioxide, to the EPA. These emissions will be published on a register to be made available on the Internet. These regulations could apply to our operations. The EPA has proposed two other rules that would regulategreenhouse gas emissions, one of which would regulate greenhouse gases from stationary sources, and mightaffect sources in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry and the pipeline industry. The EPA’s findings, the greenhouse gas reporting rule, and the proposed rules to regulate the emissions of greenhouse gases would result in federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in United States federal courts in a manner unfavorable to our industry. On June 26, 2009, the United States House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation” or “ACESA.” On November 5, 2009 the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works approved the “Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act of 2009,” authored by John Kerry and Barbara Boxer, that is similar in many ways to ACESA. One of the purposes of these bills is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. These bills would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States and would require an overall reduction in greenhouse gasemissions of 17% to 20% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. Under these bills, most sources of greenhouse gas emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet the overall emission reduction goals of the bills. As the number of greenhouse gas emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The net effect of these bills would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. President Obama has indicated that he is in support of the adoption of legislation such as the two bills discussed above, and the White House is expending significant efforts to push for the legislation. 12 Table of Contents In two recent court decisions, one before the United States Second Circuit Court of Appeals and one before the United States Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals (The Fifth Circuit), the Court has allowed cases filed to require the imposition of greenhouse gas regulations to proceed. In the first case, Connecticut v. American Electric Power, the Second Circuit ruled that several states and other plaintiffs could continue their suit to impose greenhouse gas reductions on several utility defendants, concluding that a political question and standing objections of the defendants did not prohibit the suit from going forward. The Fifth Circuit, in Comer v. Murphy Oil, ruled that plaintiffs could similarly pursue a damage suit and the political question did not prohibit the suit. The Comer v. Murphy Oil case involves claims by plaintiffs who suffered damages from Hurricane Katrina and are seeking to recover damages from certain greenhouse gas emitters, asserting their emissions contributed to their increased damages. In another case filed in the Texas District Court in Austin on October 6, 2009, a citizens group sued the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”) asserting that the agency was required to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from parties applying for permits under the Texas Clean Air Act. This lawsuit could result in additional regulation of our operations, if the Texas courts require the TCEQ to regulate carbon dioxide and perhaps other greenhouse gases, such as methane,. In summary, we may be subject to EPA greenhouse gasmonitoring and reporting rules, and potentially new EPA permitting rules if adopted, that would apply greenhouse gaspermitting obligations and emissions limitations under the federal Clean Air Act. Whether or not any federal greenhouse gas regulations are enacted, more than one-third of the states have begun taking action on their own to control and/or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Several multi-state programs have been developed or are in the process of being developed, including the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative involving 10 Northeastern states, the Western Climate Initiative involving seven western states, and the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord involving seven states. The latter two programs have several other states acting as observers and they may join one of the programs at a later date. Any of the climate change regulatory and legislative initiatives described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The National Environmental Policy Act Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA. NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of the Interior, to evaluate major agency actions that have the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. All of our current exploration and production activities, as well as proposed exploration and development plans, on federal lands require governmental permits that are potentially subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. Threatened and endangered species, migratory birds, and natural resources Various state and federal statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitat, migratory birds, wetlands, and natural resources. These statutes include the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Clean Water Act and CERCLA. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. Where takings of or harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat, or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or at times private parties, may act to prevent oil and gas exploration activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat, or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and may seek compensation for alleged natural resources damages. Hazard communications and community right to know We are subject to federal and state hazard communications and community right to know statutes, including, but not limited to, the federal Emergency Planning and Community Right-to- Know Act, and regulations. These regulations govern record keeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances. 13 Table of Contents Occupational Safety and Health Act We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, commonly referred to as OSHA, and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and the public. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 29 full-time employees. We hire independent contractors on an as needed basis. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees. We believe that our employee relationships are satisfactory. Available Information We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Isramco, Inc., that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any document we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, which may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Oil, natural-gas and NGLs prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth depend highly upon the prices we receive for our crude oil, natural gas production and NGLs (Natural Gas Liquids). Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The markets and prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs depend on factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for crude oil and natural gas, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; · actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; · the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories; · the worldwide military and political environment, uncertainty or instability resulting from the escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere; · the price and level of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs; 14 Table of Contents · the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts; · the price and availability of alternative and competing fuels; · the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure; · the availability of crude oil transportation and refining capacity; · weather conditions; · electricity dispatch; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and · the overall economic environment. The long-term effect of these and other factors on the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs are uncertain. Prolonged or substantial declines in these commodity prices may have the following effects on our business: · limiting our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; · reducing the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically; · causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; · reducing our revenues, operating income and cash flows; · reducing the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties; · reducing the amounts of our estimated proved oil and natural-gas reserves; · reducing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and natural-gas reserves; and · limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debt. Our domestic operations are subject to governmental risks that may impact our operations. Our domestic operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and are subject to complex federal, state, tribal, local and other laws and regulations such as restrictions on production, permitting, changes in taxes, deductions, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies, price or gathering-rate controls, hydraulic fracturing and environmental protection regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state, tribal and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws, including environmental and tax laws, and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, currently proposed federal legislation, that, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, includes the following: · Climate Change. Climate-change legislation establishing a “cap-and-trade” plan for green-house gases (GHGs) has been approved by the U.S. House of Representatives. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the U.S. Senate may act on climate-change legislation. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has also taken recent action related to GHGs. Based on recent developments, the EPA now purports to have a basis to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. 15 Table of Contents · Taxes. The U.S. President’s Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Proposal includes provisions that would, if enacted, make significant changes to United States tax laws. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) eliminating the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) eliminating the deduction from income for domestic production activities relating to oil and natural-gas exploration and development, and (iii) implementing certain international tax reforms. · Hydraulic Fracturing. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural-gas industry in the hydraulic-fracturing process. Currently, regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements. This legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. · Derivatives. The U.S. Congress is currently considering derivatives reform legislation focusing on expanding Federal regulation surrounding the use of financial derivative instruments, including credit default swaps, commodity derivatives and other over-the-counter derivatives. Among the recommendations included in the proposals are the requirements for centralized clearing or settling of such derivatives as well as the expansion of collateral margin requirements for certain derivative market participants. Oil and gas drilling is a speculative activity and risky. We are engaged in the business of oil and natural gas exploration, production and operations and the development of productive oil and gas wells. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future drilling program. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Although we believe that the use of 3-D seismic data and other advanced technology should increase the probability of success of our wells and should reduce average finding costs through elimination of prospects that might otherwise be drilled solely on the basis of 2-D seismic data and other traditional methods, drilling remains an inexact and speculative activity. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic data and such technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies and we could incur losses because of such expenditures. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Although we may discuss drilling prospects that have been identified or budgeted for, we may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. We may identify prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include interpretation of 3-D or other seismic data. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including (i) the results of exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data, (ii) the availability of sufficient capital resources and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects, (iii) the approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled, (iv) economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews, (v) our financial resources and results (vi) the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects and (vii) the payment of royalties to lessors. There can be no assurance that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Failure to fund continued capital expenditures could adversely affect our properties. Our acquisition, exploration, and development activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and loans from commercial banks and related parties. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of crude oil and natural gas, and our success in finding, developing and producing new reserves. If revenues were to decrease as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves, resulting in a decrease in production over time. If our cash flows from operations are not sufficient to meet our obligations and fund our capital budget, we may not be able to access debt, equity or other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet these requirements, particularly in the current economic environment. If we are not able to fund our capital expenditures, interests in some properties might be reduced or forfeited as a result. 16 Table of Contents Poor general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile oil, natural-gas and NGLs prices, declining business and consumer confidence, and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a recession. Concerns about global economic conditions have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad continues to deteriorate, or if an economic recovery is slow or prolonged, demand for petroleum products could continue to diminish or stagnate, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas and NGLs, affect our vendors’, suppliers’ and customers’ ability to continue operations, and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or assumptions underlying our reserve estimates could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control that could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated. The reserve information included or incorporated by reference in this report represents estimates prepared by our internal engineers. The procedures and methods for estimating the reserves by our internal engineers were reviewed by an independent petroleum engineering firm. Estimation of reserves is not an exact science. In accordance with the SEC’s revisions to rules for oil and gas reserves reporting, which we adopted effective December 31, 2009, our reserves estimates are based on the 12-month unweighted average of the first of the month prices; therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices increase or decrease. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any of which may cause these estimates to vary considerably from actual results, such as: · historical production from an area compared with production from similar producing areas; · assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; · assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs and capital expenditures; and · estimates of future severance and excise taxes, workover and remedial costs. Estimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected future net cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and the variance may be material. The discounted cash flows included in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural-gas reserves attributable to our properties. In accordance with SEC requirements effective January 1, 2010, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based upon average 12-month sales prices using the average beginning-of-month price, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration activities. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future acquisition, development and exploration activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. 17 Table of Contents The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors. These factors include recoverable reserves, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities, title issues and other factors. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with such assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe is thorough. However, there is no assurance that such a review will reveal all existing or potential problems or allow us to fully assess the deficiencies and capabilities of such properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties at acceptable prices because the competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us. There is a possibility that we will lose the leases to our oil and gas properties. Our oil and gas revenues are generated through leases to the oil and gas properties. These leases are conditioned on the performance of certain obligations, primarily the obligation to produce oil and/or gas or engage in operations designed to result in the production of oil and gas. If production ceases and operations are not commenced within a specified time, the lease may be lost. The loss of our leases may have a material impact on our revenues. In the case of Israeli-based properties, we have interests in licenses that, subject to certain conditions, may result in leases being granted. The leases are subject to certain obligations and are renewable at the discretion of various governmental authorities. As such, if the parties responsible for operations are not able to fulfill their obligations under the leases, the leases may be modified, cancelled, not renewed, or renewed on terms different from the current leases. The modification or cancellation of our leases could eliminate our interests and may have a material impact on our revenues. Our business is highly competitive. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in many respects, including identification of attractive oil and natural gas properties for acquisition, drilling and development, securing financing for such activities and obtaining the necessary equipment and personnel to conduct such operations and activities. In seeking suitable opportunities, we compete with a number of other companies, including large oil and natural gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial resources, larger numbers of personnel and facilities, and with more expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with these entities. Our business may be affected by oil and gas price volatility. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under our Senior Credit Agreements will be subject to periodic redetermination based in part on current oil and natural gas prices and on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. 18 Table of Contents Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are: · the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for oil and natural gas; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; · political instability, armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; · the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as India and China; · labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; · weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas; · the price and availability of alternative and competing fuels; · the price and level of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs; and · worldwide economic conditions. Our commercial lenders have liens on substantially all of our oil and gas assets in the United States and could foreclose in the event that we default under our credit facilities. Under the terms of our credit facilities with our commercial lenders, our lenders have a first priority lien on substantially all of our oil and gas assets in the United States. If we default under the credit facility, our lender would be entitled to, among other things, foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may expose us to other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we have entered into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · our actual production is less than hedged volumes; · there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or · the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. 19 Table of Contents The current economic crisis may have a negative impact on the liquidity of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements, which increases the risk of those counterparties failing to perform under those agreements. If those parties do fail to perform, we will be exposed to the price risks we had sought to mitigate and our operating results, financial position and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009 approximately 74%, 77%, 44%, 34% and 27% of our forecasted oil production and natural gas liquids hedged for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 respectively and approximately 71%, 35% and 9% of our forecasted gas production hedged for 2010, 2011 and 2012. We have no means to market our oil and gas production without the assistance of third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third party services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could impair or delay the production of new wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in, delay or discontinuance could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, regulation of oil and natural gas production transportation in the United States or in other countries may affect its ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas on a profitable basis. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and/or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas may increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks that are beyond our control. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include: · human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities; · blowouts, fires, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; · unavailability of materials and equipment; · engineering and construction delays; 20 Table of Contents · unanticipated transportation costs and delays; · unfavorable weather conditions; · hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; · environmental regulations and requirements; · accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; · changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced; · fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; and · the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected liabilities. The exploration for, and production of, natural gas and crude oil can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as blowouts, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, injure or kill people, and damage property and the environment. Moreover, our onshore operations are subject to customary perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. The occurrence of any of these events and any costs or liabilities incurred as a result of such events would reduce the funds available to us for our exploration, development and production activities and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Governmental and environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. 21 Table of Contents Our operations are also subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various jurisdictions in which we have or expect to have oil and natural gas operations. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in any of the following ways: · from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; · from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; · damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and · blowouts, hurricanes and explosions. Assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due significantly to acquisitions of producing properties and underdeveloped leaseholds. We expect acquisitions may also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise in the future. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. Because of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Our ability to sell our natural-gas and crude-oil production could be materially harmed if we fail to obtain adequate services such as transportation. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline facilities and tanker transportation. If any of the pipelines or tankers become unavailable, we would be required to find a suitable alternative to transport the gas and oil, which could increase our costs and/or reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of the gas and oil. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally conduct due diligence to review title on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is due to title defects is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. 22 Table of Contents We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators to a significant extent. The success of the drilling, development and production of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have or expect to have a non-operating working interest is substantially dependent upon the decisions of such third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. Such adverse consequences could result in substantial liabilities to us or reduce the value of our properties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations in Israel may be adversely affected by economic and political developments. We have interests in oil and gas leases and in oil and gas licenses in the waters off Israel. These interests may be adversely affected by political and economic developments, including the following: · war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances, · changes in taxation policies, · laws and policies of the US and Israel affecting foreign investment, taxation, trade and business conduct, · foreign exchange restrictions, · international monetary fluctuations and changes in the value of the US dollar, such as the decline of the US dollar and · other hazards arising out of Israeli governmental sovereignty over areas in which we own oil and gas interests. Members of Isramco’s management team own a significant amount of common stock, giving them influence or control in corporate transactions and other matters, and the interests of these individuals could differ from those other shareholders. Members of our management team beneficially own approximately 51.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 12, 2010. As a result, these shareholders are in a position to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of an amendment to our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. 23 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile and could continue to be volatile and has limited liquidity; Accordingly, investors may not be able to sell any significant number of shares of our stock at prevailing market prices. Investor interest in our common stock may not lead to the development of an active or liquid trading market. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The stock prices and trading volumes for our stock has fluctuated widely and the average daily trading volume of our stock continues to be limited and may continue for reasons that may be unrelated to business or results of operations. General economic, market and political conditions could also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price. As a result of the limited trading in our stock, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 