Item 1A. RISK FACTORS — continued Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit our growth. S&T is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of our operations. Changes to these laws could affect our ability to deliver or expand our services and diminish the value of our business. See “Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. Interest rate movements impact the earnings of S&T. S&T is exposed to interest rate risk, through the operations of its banking subsidiary, since substantially all of S&T Bank’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. Interest rate risk arises from market driven fluctuations in interest rates that affect cash flows, income, expense and value of financial instruments. S&T Bank’s earnings, like that of most financial institutions, largely depend on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. In an increasing interest rate environment, the cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the interest earned on the loans and securities because the primary source of funds are deposits with generally shorter maturities than the maturities on loans and investment securities. This causes the net interest rate spread to compress and negatively impact S&T Bank’s profitability. S&T’s business strategy includes growth plans through internal growth and acquisitions. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. S&T intends to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that growth will be successfully managed. Downturn in the local economies may adversely affect our business. S&T’s business is concentrated in the western-Pennsylvania area. As a result, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes if there are changes in the economic conditions in this area. A prolonged period of economic recession or other adverse economic conditions in this area could have a negative impact on S&T. S&T can provide no assurance that conditions in its market area economies will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration would not have a material adverse effect on S&T. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved comments received from the SEC regarding S&T’s periodic or current reports within the last 180 days prior to December 31, 2006. PAGE 10 Table of Contents 