ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Business climate is volatile The recent financial crisis/recession and continued economic uncertainty represent a continued risk for the Company and has resulted in delays of orders and/or cancellations. Giga-tronics has a significant number of defense-related orders. If the defense market demand decreases, actual shipments could be less than projected shipments with a resulting decline in sales. The Company’s commercial product backlog has a number of risks and uncertainties such as the cancellation or deferral of orders, dispute over performance and the Company’s ability to collect amounts due under these orders. If any of these events occur, actual shipments could be less than projected shipments and revenues could decline. On March 1, 2013 the Federal government process known as “Sequestration” went into effect requiring automatic, indiscriminate across-the-board budget cuts to government programs. Sequestration will likely impact the way in which the government chooses to spend its money, but the effect Sequestration may have on Giga-tronics is uncertain. Giga-tronics’ sales are substantially dependent on the wireless industry Giga-tronics sells directly or indirectly to customers and equipment manufacturers in the wireless industry. This industry continues to experience dramatic and rapid change. As such, the business that Giga-tronics records could decrease or existing recorded backlog could be deferred resulting in lower than projected shipments which may have a material adverse effect on operating results. Giga-tronics’ markets involve rapidly changing technology and standards The market for electronics equipment is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. Giga-tronics believes that its future success will depend in part upon its ability to develop and commercialize its existing products, develop new products and applications, and in part to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products and product lines with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance existing products. There can be no assurance that Giga-tronics will successfully complete the development of current or future products, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. The inability to develop new products in a timely manner could have a material adverse impact on operating performance and liquidity. Future liquidity is uncertain Based on current levels of sales and expenses, and based on management's forecast of operations in the near future, management believes that cash and cash equivalents remain adequate to meet current operating needs. In addition, the Company has entered into an agreement to raise approximately $858,000 additional capital as discussed in Note 15, Subsequent Events, which management anticipates will close in July 2013. The cash forecasts are based on projections that may or may not be realized, and therefore actual cash usage could be greater than projected. In this circumstance, to continue operating, the Company would be required to either: earn additional cash from operations; obtain additional debt; sell additional securities; and/or obtain additional funds from other sources. If such additional working capital is required, there are no assurances that such financing from debt or the sale of securities will be available on favorable terms to the Company, if at all. Giga-tronics’ common stock price is volatile The market price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, reduction in revenues or lower earnings or increased losses and reduced levels of liquidity when compared to previous quarterly periods, and other factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by Giga-tronics or by competitors, government regulations or developments in patent or other proprietary rights. In addition, the NASDAQ Capital Market and other stock markets have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. Some of these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the reported operating performance of the specific companies whose stocks are traded. Broad market fluctuations, as well as general foreign and domestic economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Giga-tronics stock at any time has historically traded on low volume on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Sales of a significant volume of stock could result in a decline of Giga-tronics’ share price. 8 Performance problems in Giga-tronics’ products or problems arising from the use of its products together with other vendors’ products may harm its business and reputation Products as complex as those Giga-tronics produces may contain unknown and undetected defects or performance problems. For example, it is possible that a product might not comply with stipulated specifications under all circumstances. In addition, Giga-tronics’ customers generally use its products together with their own products and products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. A defect or performance problem could result in lost revenues, increased warranty costs, diversion of engineering and management time and effort, impaired customer relationships and injury to Giga-tronics’ reputation generally. To date, performance problems in Giga-tronics’ products or in other products used together with Giga-tronics’ products have not had a material adverse effect on its business. However, management cannot be certain that a material adverse impact will not occur in the future. Giga-tronics’ competition has greater resources The Company’s instrument, switch, oscillator and synthesizer products compete with Agilent, Anritsu, EADS, Aeroflex and Rohde & Schwarz. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, and technological personnel and managerial resources than Giga-tronics. These resources also make these competitors better able to withstand difficult market conditions than the Company. There can be no assurance that any products developed by the competitors will not gain greater market acceptance than any developed by Giga-tronics. Giga-tronics acquisitions may not be effectively integrated and their integration may be costly As part of its business strategy, Giga-tronics may broaden its product lines and expand its markets, in part through the acquisition of other business entities. Giga-tronics is subject to various risks in connection with any future acquisitions. Such risks include, among other things, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of the Company’s business, the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company by the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into its product offerings, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. No assurance can be given that any acquisition by Giga-tronics will or will not occur, that if an acquisition does occur, that it will not materially harm the Company or that any such acquisition will be successful in enhancing the Company’s business. The Company currently contemplates that future acquisitions may involve the issuance of additional shares of common stock. Any such issuance may result in dilution to all Giga-tronics’ shareholders, and sales of such shares in significant volume by the shareholders of acquired companies may depress the price of its common stock. The Company has not made any acquisitions in the past several years. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 