ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following risks factors which may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. OIL AND GAS DRILLING IS A SPECULATIVE ACTIVITY AND RISKY. Isramco is engaged in the business of oil and natural gas exploration and the resulting development of productive oil and gas wells. Isramco's growth will be materially dependent upon the success of its future drilling program. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond Isramco's control, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Although Isramco believes that its use of 3-D seismic data and other advanced 7 technology should increase the probability of success of its wells and should reduce average finding costs through elimination of prospects that might otherwise be drilled solely on the basis of 2-D seismic data and other traditional methods, drilling remains an inexact and speculative activity. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic data and such technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies and Isramco could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. Isramco's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on Isramco's future results of operations and financial condition. Although Isramco may discuss drilling prospects that have been identified or budgeted for, Isramco may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. Isramco may identify prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include interpretation of 3-D or other seismic data. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including (i) the results of exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data, (ii) the availability of sufficient capital resources to Isramco and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects, (iii) the approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled, (iv) economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews, (v) Isramco's financial resources and results (vi) the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects and (vii) the payment of royalties to lessors. There can be no assurance that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond Isramco's control. THE OIL AND NATURAL GAS RESERVE DATA INCLUDED IN THIS REPORT ARE ONLY ESTIMATES AND THAT MAY TURN OUT TO BE INACCURATE. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. The reserve data in this report represent only estimates that may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs, some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to Isramco's reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. THERE IS A POSSIBILITY THAT ISRAMCO WILL LOSE THE LEASES TO ITS OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES. Isramco's oil and gas revenues are generated through leases to the oil and gas properties or, in the case of Israeli based properties, licenses that, subject to certain conditions, may result in leases being granted. The leases are subject to certain obligations and are renewable at the discretion of various governmental authorities, as such, Isramco may not be able to fulfill its obligations under the leases which may result in the modification or cancellation of such leases, or such leases may not be renewed or may be renewed on terms different from the current leases. The modification or cancellation of Isramco's leases may have a material impact on Isramco's revenues. COMPETITION IN THE INDUSTRY MAY IMPAIR ISRAMCO'S ABILITY TO EXPLORE, DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE ITS OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES. The oil and natural gas industry is very competitive. Competition is particularly intense in the acquisition of prospective oil and natural gas properties and oil and gas reserves. Isramco competes with a substantial number of other companies having larger technical staffs and greater financial and operational resources. Many such companies not only engage in the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves, but also carry on refining operations, electricity generation and the marketing of refined products. Isramco also competes with major and independent oil and gas companies in the marketing and sale of oil and natural gas, and the oil and natural gas industry in general competes with other industries supplying energy and fuel to industrial, commercial and individual consumers. Isramco competes with other oil and natural gas companies in attempting to secure drilling rigs and other equipment necessary for drilling and completion of wells. Such equipment may be in short supply from time to time. ISRAMCO'S BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY OIL AND GAS PRICE VOLATILITY. Historically, natural gas and oil prices have been volatile. These prices rise and fall based on changes in 8 market demand and changes in the political, regulatory and economic climate and other factors that affect commodities markets that are generally outside of Isramco's control. Some of Isramco's projections and estimates are based on assumptions as to the future prices of natural gas and crude oil. These price assumptions are used for planning purposes. Isramco expects that its assumptions will change over time and that actual prices in the future may differ from its estimates. Any substantial or extended decline in the actual prices of natural gas and/or crude oil may have a material adverse effect on Isramco's financial position and results of operations (including reduced cash flow and borrowing capacity), the quantities of natural gas and crude oil reserves that it can economically produce and the quantity of estimated proved reserves that may be attributed to its properties OUR HEDGING ACTIVITIES MAY PREVENT US FROM BENEFITING FROM PRICE INCREASES AND MAY EXPOSE US TO OTHER RISKS. From time to time, we use derivative instruments (primarily price swaps) to hedge the impact of market fluctuations of natural gas and crude oil prices on our net income and cash flow. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. ISRAMCO HAS NO MEANS TO MARKET ITS OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION WITHOUT THE ASSISTANCE OF THIRD PARTIES. The marketability of Isramco's production depends upon the proximity of its reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third party services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could impair or delay the production of new wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in or delay or discontinuance could adversely affect Isramco's financial condition. In addition, regulation of oil and natural gas production transportation in the United States or in other countries may affect its ability to produce and market its oil and natural gas on a profitable basis. THE UNAVAILABILITY OR INCREASED COST OF DRILLING RIGS, EQUIPMENT, SUPPLIES, PERSONNEL AND OILFIELD SERVICES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT ISRAMCO'S ABILITY TO EXECUTE ON A TIMELY BASIS ON ITS DEVELOPMENT PLANS WITHIN ITS BUDGET. Shortages or an increase in cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect Isramco's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In periods of increased drilling activity, Isramco may experience increases in associated costs, including those related to drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel and the services and products of other vendors to the industry. Increased drilling activity in the Texas area also decreases the availability of rigs and associated equipment. These costs may increase further and necessary equipment and services may not be available to us at economical prices. ISRAMCO'S OPERATIONS MAY BE IMPACTED BY CERTAIN RISKS COMMON IN THE INDUSTRY. Isramco's exploration and drilling operations are subject to various risks common in the industry, including catering, explosions, fires and uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids. The drilling operations are also subject to the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reserves will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents and adverse weather conditions. In accordance with industry practice, Isramco maintains insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Isramco cannot provide assurance that its insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, it cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND ABILITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ISRAMCO'S BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations. In addition, Isramco may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property it purchases or leases. As a result, Isramco may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. Isramco 9 is also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on Isramco's business. ISRAMCO MAY BE UNABLE TO IDENTIFY LIABILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTIES THAT IT ACQUIRES OR OBTAIN PROTECTION FROM SELLER AGAINST THEM. The acquisition of properties requires Isramco to assess a number of factors, including recoverable reserves, development and operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. In connection with the assessments, Isramco performs a review of the subject properties, but such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well, platform or pipeline. Isramco cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion, when an inspection is made. Isramco may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. Isramco may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with its expectations. MEMBERS OF ISRAMCO'S MANAGEMENT TEAM OWE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF COMMON STOCK, GIVING THEM INFLUENCE OR CONTROL IN CORPORATE TRANSACTIONS AND OTHER MATTERS, AND THE INTERESTS OF THESE INDIVIDUALS COULD DIFFER FROM THOSE OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. Members of Isramco's management team beneficially own approximately 51.3% of Isramco's outstanding shares of common stock as of March 28, 2008. As a result, these shareholders are in a position to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of an amendment to our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. RAPID GROWTH MAY PLACE SIGNIFICANT DEMANDS AND RESOURCES. Isramco experienced rapid growth in operations occasioned by the purchase of approximately 650 producing oil and gas wells from Five States, approximately 590 producing oil and gas wells from GFB and Trans Republic and expects that significant expansion of its operations will continue. The rapid growth has placed, and the anticipated future growth will continue to place, a significant demand on Isramco's managerial, operational and financial resources due to: o the need to manage relationships with various strategic partners and other third parties; o difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled personnel necessary to support our business; o the need to train and manage a growing employee base; and o pressures for the continued development of our financial and information management systems. If Isramco has not made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with this expansion or if its systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support its operations, its business could be adversely impacted. ISRAMCO'S STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE AND COULD CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Investor interest in Isramco's common stock may not lead to the development of an active or liquid trading market. The market price of Isramco's common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The stock prices and trading volumes for Isramco's stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to so for reasons that may be unrelated to business or results of operations. General economic, market and political conditions could also materially and adversely affect the market price of Isramco's common stock and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 