ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future liquidity is uncertain The Company incurred net losses of $3.7 million in fiscal 2014, and $4.2 million in fiscal 2013. These losses have contributed to an accumulated deficit of $18.3 million at March 29, 2014, and have resulted in the Company using cash in its operations of $2.5 million in fiscal 2014. These matters, along with recurring losses in prior years, raise substantial doubt as to the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. In fiscal 2014 and 2013 the Company invested heavily in the development of a new Giga-tronics Division product platform. The Company anticipates long-term revenue growth and improved gross margins from the new product platform, but delays in completing it have contributed to the losses of the Company. The new product platform is currently forecasted to start shipping in the second quarter of fiscal 2015, but further delays could cause additional losses. To help fund operations, the Company relies on advances under its line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”). However the SVB may terminate or suspend advances under the line of credit if SVB determines there has been a material adverse change in the Company’s general affairs, financial forecasts or general ability to repay. (see Note 15, Line of Credit). To address this matter, the Company’s management has taken several actions to address liquidity concerns during fiscal 2014, and reduce the costs and expenses going forward. These actions are described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 2, Going Concern and Management’s Plan). 7 Management believes that through the actions described in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 2, Going Concern and Management’s Plan), the Company should have the necessary liquidity to continue its operations at least for the next twelve months, though no assurances can be made in this regard. Delivery of new products in development The Company continues to invest heavily in the development of a new product platform forecasted to start shipping in the second quarter of fiscal 2015. The Company anticipates long-term revenue growth and improved gross margins from the new product platform. No assurances can be made that the new product platform will be delivered to customers in the second quarter of fiscal 2015 or that there will be sufficient market acceptance of it. Ability to stay listed for trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market On February 12, 2014, the Company received a notification letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) advising the Company of its failure to comply with the required minimum of $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, pursuant to NASDAQ listing rule 5550(b)(1). The Company fell below the minimum requirement with reported shareholders’ equity of $2.0 million in its Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 28, 2013. NASDAQ stated in the February 12, 2014 letter that under the NASDAQ listing rules the Company had 45 calendar days to submit a plan to regain compliance. The Company submitted a plan on March 31, 2014. On April 10, 2014, the Company received a notification letter from NASDAQ advising the Company that an extension to August 11, 2014, had been granted to take the steps necessary to regain compliance with NASDAQ listing rule 5550(b)(1) and promptly thereafter to file a report describing the transaction or event enabling the company to satisfy the applicable requirement for continued listing. There can be no assurance that the Company’s plans to comply with the required minimum of $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity will be successful by August 11, 2014. If the Company’s Common Stock ceases to be listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Company expects that its Common Stock would be traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board on or about the same day. The market price of the Company’s Common Stock may be adversely affected if it ceases to be listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Giga-tronics’ sales are substantially dependent on the defense industry Giga-tronics has a significant number of defense-related orders. If the defense market demand decreases, actual shipments could be less than projected shipments with a resulting decline in sales. The Company’s product backlog has a number of risks and uncertainties such as the cancellation or deferral of orders, dispute over performance and the Company’s ability to collect amounts due under these orders. If any of these events occur, actual shipments could be lower than projected shipments and revenues could decline. Giga-tronics’ markets involve rapidly changing technology and standards The market for electronics equipment is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. Giga-tronics believes that its future success will depend in part upon its ability to develop and commercialize its existing products, and in part to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products and product lines with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance existing products. There can be no assurance that Giga-tronics will successfully complete the development of current or future products, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. The inability to develop new products in a timely manner could have a material adverse impact on operating performance and liquidity. Giga-tronics’ common stock price is volatile The market price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, reduction in revenues or lower earnings or increased losses and reduced levels of liquidity when compared to previous quarterly periods, and other factors such as announcements of technological innovations or new products by Giga-tronics or by competitors, government regulations or developments in patent or other proprietary rights. In addition, The Nasdaq Capital Market and other stock markets have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. Some of these fluctuations often have been unrelated to the reported operating performance of the specific companies whose stocks are traded. Broad market fluctuations, as well as general foreign and domestic economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. 8 Giga-tronics stock at any time has historically traded on low volume on The Nasdaq Capital Market. Sales of a significant volume of stock could result in a decline of Giga-tronics’ share price. Performance problems in Giga-tronics’ products or problems arising from the use of its products together with other vendors’ products may harm its business and reputation Products as complex as those Giga-tronics produces may contain unknown and undetected defects or performance problems. For example, it is possible that a product might not comply with stipulated specifications under all circumstances. In addition, Giga-tronics’ customers generally use its products together with their own products and products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. A defect or performance problem could result in lost revenues, increased warranty costs, diversion of engineering and management time and effort, impaired customer relationships and injury to Giga-tronics’ reputation generally. To date, performance problems in Giga-tronics’ products or in other products used together with Giga-tronics’ products have not had a material adverse effect on its business. However, management cannot be certain that a material adverse impact will not occur in the future. Giga-tronics’ competition has greater resources The Company’s instrument, switch, oscillator and synthesizer products compete with Agilent/Keysight, Anritsu, EADS, Aeroflex and Rohde & Schwarz. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial, and technological personnel and managerial resources than Giga-tronics. These resources also make these competitors better able to withstand difficult market conditions than the Company. There can be no assurance that any products developed by the competitors will not gain greater market acceptance than any developed by Giga-tronics. Giga-tronics acquisitions may not be effectively integrated and their integration may be costly As part of its business strategy, Giga-tronics may broaden its product lines and expand its markets, in part through the acquisition of other business entities. Giga-tronics is subject to various risks in connection with any future acquisitions. Such risks include, among other things, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of the Company’s business, the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company by the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into its product offerings, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. No assurance can be given that any acquisition by Giga-tronics will or will not occur, that if an acquisition does occur, that it will not materially harm the Company or that any such acquisition will be successful in enhancing the Company’s business. The Company currently contemplates that future acquisitions may involve the issuance of additional shares of common stock. Any such issuance may result in dilution to all Giga-tronics’ shareholders, and sales of such shares in significant volume by the shareholders of acquired companies may depress the price of its common stock. The Company has not made any acquisitions in the past several years. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 