RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following risks. If any of these risks occurs, the Company's business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. 7 RISKS RELATED THE COMPANY'S OIL AND GAS BUSINESS OIL AND GAS DRILLING IS A SPECULATIVE ACTIVITY AND RISKY The Company is engaged in the business of oil and natural gas exploration and the resulting development of productive oil and gas wells. The Company's growth will be materially dependent upon the success of its future drilling program. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond the Company's control, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Although the Company believes that its use of 3-D seismic data and other advanced technology should increase the probability of success of its wells and should reduce average finding costs through elimination of prospects that might otherwise be drilled solely on the basis of 2-D seismic data and other traditional methods, drilling remains an inexact and speculative activity. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic data and such technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies and the Company could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. The Company's future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the Company's future results of operations and financial condition. Although the Company may discuss drilling prospects that have been identified or budgeted for, the Company may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. The Company may identify prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include interpretation of 3-D or other seismic data. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including (i) the results of exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data, (ii) the availability of sufficient capital resources to the Company and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects, (iii) the approval of the prospects by other participants after additional data has been compiled, (iv) economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews, (v) the Company's financial resources and results (vi) the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects and (vii) the payment of royalties to lessors. There can be no assurance that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond the Company's control. THE OIL AND NATURAL GAS RESERVE DATA INCLUDED IN THIS REPORT ARE ONLY ESTIMATES AND MAY PROVE TO BE INACCURATE. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. The reserve data in this report represent only estimates that may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs, some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to the Company's reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. 8 THERE IS A POSSIBILITY THAT THE COMPANY WILL LOSE THE LEASES TO ITS OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES. The Company's oil and gas revenues are generated through leases to the oil and gas properties or, in the case of Israeli based properties, licenses that, subject to certain conditions, may result in leases being granted. The leases are subject to certain obligations and are renewable at the discretion of various governmental authorities, as such, the Company may not be able to fulfill its obligations under the leases which may result in the modification or cancellation of such leases, or such leases may not be renewed or may be renewed on terms different from the current leases. The modification or cancellation of the Company's leases may have a material impact on the Company's revenues. COMPETITION IN THE INDUSTRY MAY IMPAIR THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO EXPLORE, DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE ITS OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES. The oil and natural gas industry is very competitive. Competition is particularly intense in the acquisition of prospective oil and natural gas properties and oil and gas reserves. The Company competes with a substantial number of other companies having larger technical staffs and greater financial and operational resources. Many such companies not only engage in the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves, but also carry on refining operations, electricity generation and the marketing of refined products. The Company also competes with major and independent oil and gas companies in the marketing and sale of oil and natural gas, and the oil and natural gas industry in general competes with other industries supplying energy and fuel to industrial, commercial and individual consumers. The Company competes with other oil and natural gas companies in attempting to secure drilling rigs and other equipment necessary for drilling and completion of wells. Such equipment may be in short supply from time to time. THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY OIL AND GAS PRICE VOLATILITY. Historically, natural gas and oil prices have been volatile. These prices rise and fall based on changes in market demand and changes in the political, regulatory and economic climate and other factors that affect commodities markets that are generally outside of the Company's control. Some of the Company's projections and estimates are based on assumptions as to the future prices of natural gas and crude oil. These price assumptions are used for planning purposes. The Company expects that its assumptions will change over time and that actual prices in the future may differ from its estimates. Any substantial or extended decline in the actual prices of natural gas and/or crude oil may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations (including reduced cash flow and borrowing capacity), the quantities of natural gas and crude oil reserves that it can economically produce and the quantity of estimated proved reserves that may be attributed to its properties THE COMPANY HAS NO MEANS TO MARKET ITS OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION WITHOUT THE ASSISTANCE OF THIRD PARTIES. The marketability of the Company's production depends upon the proximity of its reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third party services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could impair or delay the production of new wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in or delay or discontinuance could adversely affect the Company's financial condition. In addition, regulation of oil and natural gas production transportation in the United States or in other countries may affect its ability to produce and market its oil and natural gas on a profitable basis. THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. The Company conducts business from its facilities in Israel and the United States. Its international operations and activities subject the Company to a number of risks, including the risk of political and economic instability, difficulty in managing foreign operations, potentially adverse taxes, higher expenses and difficulty in collection of accounts receivable. Although the Company Israeli subsidiary receives most of its operating funds in U.S. dollars, a portion of its payroll and other expenses and certain of its investments are fixed in the currency of Israel. Because the Company's financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, they are affected by changes in the value of the various foreign currencies that the Company uses to make payments in relation to the U.S. dollar. 9 THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS MAY BE IMPACTED BY CERTAIN RISKS COMMON IN THE INDUSTRY. The Company's exploration and drilling operations are subject to various risks common in the industry, including cratering, explosions, fires and uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids. The drilling operations are also subject to the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reserves will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents and adverse weather conditions. In accordance with industry practice, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. The Company cannot provide assurance that its insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, it cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND LIABILITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations. In addition, the Company may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property it purchases or leases. As a result, the Company may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. The Company is also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. RISKS RELATED TO THE VESSEL THE DESIGNATION OF THE VESSEL AS AN `ISRAELI VESSEL' COULD INCREASE THE COST OF OPERATING THE VESSEL AND MAY POTENTIALLY REDUCE THE INCOME FROM LEASING THE VESSEL. In January 2005, Israeli authorities advised Naphtha Israel Petroleum Corp. that in their view the Vessel qualified as an Israeli vessel (notwithstanding its foreign registration and ownership) as Naphtha holds 49.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company. Consequently, the authorities contend that certain Israeli maritime rules and regulations govern the Vessel and its operations. These rules impose certain requirements as to operation of the vessel and require among other things that the vessel be staffed by Israeli crew, satisfy certain security requirements and allow for the mobilization of the Vessel by the Israeli authorities during periods of war or hostilities. In February 2005 Naphtha applied to the Israeli high court for a declaratory order that the Vessel is not an Israeli vessel. In the event that the Israeli court declines to grant Naphtha's application, the operating costs of the Vessel will increase and result in a reduction of potential charter (lease) opportunities for exploitation of the Vessel. In March 2005, Naphtha was advised that under a 'bareboat charter' the authorities will not deem the vessel to be an Israeli vessel. 10 As of the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K, the Company cannot determine the outcome of the matter. A POTENTIAL LOSS OF BUSINESS DUE TO COMPETITORS THROUGHOUT THE VACATION MARKET. The Company faces significant competition from other cruise lines, in terms of the types of ships and services. Additionally, oceanline cruises are only one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. Therefore risk losing potential lessors of the Vessel due to competition form other cruise lines and also due to other vacation operators that provide other travel and leisure options, including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. Any failure to lease the Vessel for a significant period of time may adversely affect Company's results of operations and financial condition. THE POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CLIMATE AND OTHER WORLD EVENTS AFFECTING SAFETY AND SECURITY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE DEMAND FOR CRUISES AND COULD HARM THE FUTURE LEASING AND PROFITABILITY. Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been, and is expected to continue to be, affected by the public's attitude towards the safety of travel, the international political climate and the political climate of destination countries. Events such as the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 and the instability in much of the Mediterranean region (the region in which our Vessel operates) and the threats of attacks in the Mediterranean and elsewhere, concerns of an outbreak of additional hostilities, national government travel advisories, the resulting political instability and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling, have had a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry and may continue to do so in the future. Demand for cruises is also likely to be increasingly dependent on the underlying economic strength of the countries from which cruise companies source their passengers. Economic or political changes that reduce disposable income or consumer confidence in the countries may affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which are a discretionary purchase. Decreases in demand could adversely affect our ability to lease the Vessel and negatively affect profitability. ACCIDENTS AND OTHER INCIDENTS OR ADVERSE PUBLICITY CONCERNING THE CRUISE INDUSTRY AND COULD AFFECT COMPANY'S REPUTATION AND HARM FUTURE LEASING AND PROFITABILITY. The operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, passenger and crew illnesses, mechanical failures and other incidents at sea or while in port, which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely effect future industry performance, sales and profitability. It is possible that these factors could adversely affect our leasing ability or existing charter, which would have an adverse affect on profitability. In addition, adverse publicity concerning the vacation industry in general or the cruise industry or us in particular could affect our reputation and impact demand and, consequently, have an adverse affect on our profitability. NEW REGULATIONS OF HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY, ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATORY ISSUES COULD INCREASE COMPANY'S OPERATING COSTS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT NET INCOME. The Company is subject to various international, national, state and local health, safety and security laws, regulations and treaties. We believe that health, safety, security and other regulatory issues will continue to be areas of focus by relevant government authorities. Resulting legislation or regulations, or changes in existing legislation or regulations, could impact Company's operations and would likely subject to increasing compliance costs in the future. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED AT PORTS COULD REDUCE COMPANY'S PROFITABILITY. Industrial actions and insolvency or financial problems of the ports where the Vessel is docked could adversely affect Company's profitability. 11 RISKS RELATED TO OPERATIONS GENERALLY THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL. The Company is involved in oil and gas exploration activities in Israel as operator of certain offshore licenses or otherwise. The Company also purchased significant non-oil and gas real-estate properties in Israel. The Company also maintains a significant presence within Israel. Accordingly, a significant portion of the Company's business is directly affected by prevailing economic, military and political conditions that affect Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel might have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE AND COULD CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Investor interest in the Company's common stock may not lead to the development of an active or liquid trading market. The market price of the Company's common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The stock prices and trading volumes for the Company's stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to so for reasons that may be unrelated to business or results of operations. General economic, market and political conditions could also materially and adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price. PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS ARE APPLICABLE TO INVESTMENT IN SHARES OF THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks" are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the Nasdaq system, provided that current prices and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities are provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Many brokers will not deal with penny stocks; this restricts the market. 