ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, which may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Oil, natural-gas and NGLs prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs ((Natural Gas Liquids) can fluctuate widely. Our revenues, operating results and future growth rates are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs. Historically, the markets for oil, natural gas and NGLs have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. For example, in recent years market prices for natural gas in the United States have declined substantially from the highs achieved in 2008 and the rapid development of shale plays throughout North America has contributed significantly to this trend. Factors influencing the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: ● the worldwide military and political environment, uncertainty or instability resulting from the escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere, particularly Israel; ● worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; ● actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; ● the level of global crude oil and natural gas inventories; ● the price and level of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs; ● the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts; ● the price and availability of alternative and competing fuels; ● the cost of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting, and marketing oil, natural gas, and NGLs; ● the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure; ● the availability of crude oil transportation and refining capacity; ● consumer demand for oil, gas and NGLs; ● the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as India and China; ● labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; ● regional pricing differentials; ● weather conditions; ● electricity needs; ● the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulation (including environmental regulation and regulation of derivatives transactions and hedging activities) and taxation; and ● the overall economic environment. The long-term effect of these and other factors on the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs are uncertain. Prolonged or substantial declines in these commodity prices may have the following effects on our business: ● adversely affecting our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; ● reducing the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically; ● causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; 12 Table of Contents ● reducing our revenues, operating income and cash flows; ● reducing the carrying value of our crude oil and natural gas properties; ● reducing the amounts of our estimated proved oil and natural-gas reserves; ● reducing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil and natural-gas reserves; and ● limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debt. Depending on the market prices of oil and gas, oil and gas exploration and production companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs and may lower production spending on existing wells, thereby reducing demand for our production services. Many factors beyond our control affect oil and gas prices, including: ● the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; ● the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; ● the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; ● the ability of oil and gas exploration and production companies to raise capital; Our domestic operations are subject to governmental risks that may impact our operations. Our domestic operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and are subject to complex federal, state, tribal, local and other laws and regulations such as restrictions on production, permitting, changes in taxes, deductions, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies, price or gathering-rate controls, hydraulic fracturing and environmental protection regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state, tribal and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws, including environmental and tax laws, and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, currently proposed federal legislation, that, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, includes the following: ● Climate Change A number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing emissions of green-house gases (GHGs). In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has made findings that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment and, based on these findings, has adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. We may be required to install “best available control technology” to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that we may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs. ● Taxes. Congress may undertake significant deficit reduction or comprehensive tax reform in the coming year. Proposals include provisions that would, if enacted, (i) eliminate the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) eliminate the manufacturing deduction for oil and gas qualified production activities, and (iii) eliminate the acceleration of depreciation for tangible property. ● Hydraulic Fracturing. This process is an essential and common practice used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations such as shales that generally exist between 4,000 and 14,000 feet below ground. We routinely apply hydraulic-fracturing techniques in many of our U.S. onshore oil and natural-gas drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand, and additives under pressure into a targeted subsurface formation. The water and pressure create fractures in the rock formations, which are held open by the grains of sand, enabling the oil or natural gas to flow to the wellbore. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural-gas commissions; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic-fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels with the public comment period expiring in August 2012. In November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the agency currently projects to issue an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in May 2013 that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. In May 2012, the Department of the Interior (DOI) released draft regulations governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian oil and gas leases to require disclosure of information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, advance approval for well-stimulation activities, mechanical integrity testing of casing, and monitoring of well-stimulation operations. In addition, Congress, from time to time, has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In the event that a new, federal level of legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic-fracturing process is adopted in areas where we currently or in the future plan to operate, we may incur additional costs to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant in nature, and also could become subject to additional permitting requirements and experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities. 13 Table of Contents Certain states in which we operate, including, Louisiana, Texas, and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, and additional well-construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic-fracturing activities. Nonetheless, in the event state or local restrictions are adopted in areas where we currently conduct operations, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements. These costs may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. There are also certain governmental reviews recently conducted or underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report outlining work currently underway by the agency released on December 21, 2012, and a final draft report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic-fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards for shale gas by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy has conducted an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods and, in August 2011, issued a report on immediate and longer-term actions that may be taken to reduce environmental and safety risks of shale-gas development. Also, as discussed above, the DOI is pursuing regulations governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian oil and gas leases. These studies, depending on any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity-price, interest-rate, and other risks associated with its business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), enacted in 2010, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC issued a final rule on position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions are exempt from these position limits. The position-limits rule was vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Colombia in September 2012 and the CFTC recently stated that it will appeal the District Court’s decision. The CFTC also finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “swap dealer,” and “major swap participant.” Some regulations, however, remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. Depending on the Company’s classification and the particular nature of its derivative activities, the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations may require the Company to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with its derivative activities. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations may also require the counterparties to the Company’s derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters, reduce the Company’s ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the Company’s exposure to less-creditworthy counterparties. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, the Company’s results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural-gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. The Company’s revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of risks that we cannot control. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil and natural gas reserves (including "dry holes"). As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. 14 Table of Contents Specifically, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, and our drilling operations and those of our third-party operators may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, the cost of such operations may increase and/or our results of operations and cash flows from such operations may be impacted, as a result of a variety of factors, including ● unexpected drilling conditions; ● title problems; ● pressure or irregularities in formations; ● equipment failures or accidents; ● adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and hurricanes, and changes in weather patterns; ● compliance with, or changes in, environmental laws and regulations relating to air emissions, hydraulic fracturing and disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, laws and regulations imposing conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations and other laws and regulations, such as tax laws and regulations; ● the availability and timely issuance of required governmental permits and licenses; ● the availability of, costs associated with and terms of contractual arrangements for properties, including mineral licenses and leases, pipelines, rail cars, crude oil hauling trucks and qualified drivers and related facilities and equipment to gather, process, compress, transport and market crude oil, natural gas and related commodities; and ● the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, pressure pumping equipment and supplies, tubular materials, water, sand, disposal facilities, qualified personnel and other necessary equipment, materials, supplies and services. Our failure to recover our investment in wells, increases in the costs of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators, and/or curtailments, delays or cancellations of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators in each case due to any of the above factors or other factors, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For related discussion of the risks and potential losses and liabilities inherent in our crude oil and natural gas operations generally, see the immediately following risk factor. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks that are beyond our control and expose us to potential losses and liabilities, and insurance may not fully protect us against these risks and potential losses and liabilities. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include: ● human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities; ● blowouts, fires, explosions, loss of well control, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; ● unavailability of materials and equipment; ● engineering and construction delays; ● unanticipated transportation costs and delays; ● adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding and hurricanes, and other natural disasters; ● hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; ● environmental regulations and requirements; ● accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; 15 Table of Contents ● changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced; ● fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; ● the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available; and ● terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber security breaches. To mitigate financial losses resulting from these operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage, including insurance coverage for certain physical damage, blowout/control of a well, comprehensive general liability, aviation liability, and worker’s compensation and employer’s liability. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover us against all of potential losses arising as a result of the foregoing, and for certain risks, such as political risk, business interruption, war, terrorism, and piracy, for which we have limited or no coverage. In addition, we are not insured against all risks in all aspects of our business. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of rigs, equipment, supplies, and personnel are substantially greater and their availability to us may be limited. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us. A portion of our crude oil and natural gas production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including, but not limited to, as a result of accidents, weather conditions, loss of gathering, processing, compression or transportation facility access or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as crude oil or natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted, our cash flows and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to fund continued capital expenditures could adversely affect our properties. Our acquisition, exploration, and development activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations and loans from commercial banks and related parties. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of crude oil and natural gas, and our success in finding, developing and producing new reserves. If revenues were to decrease as a result of lower crude oil and natural gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves, resulting in a decrease in production over time. If our cash flows from operations are not sufficient to meet our obligations and fund our capital budget, we may not be able to access debt, equity or other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet these requirements, particularly in the current economic environment. If we are not able to fund our capital expenditures, interests in some properties might be reduced or forfeited as a result. Reserve estimates depend on many interpretations and assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations and assumptions could cause the reported quantities and the value of our reserves to be materially misstated. Estimating quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex, inexact process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, made by our management and our independent reserve engineering firms; Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. and Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated. Also, the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. 16 Table of Contents To prepare estimates of our economically recoverable crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas. We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, many of which factors are or may be beyond our control. Estimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected future net cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues, and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and the variance may be material. The discounted cash flows included in this report should not be construed as the fair value of the estimated oil, natural-gas, and NGLs reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average 12-month sales prices using the average beginning-of-month price. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from the SEC regulation-compliant prices used for purposes of estimating future discounted net cash flows from proved reserves. Discoveries or Acquisitions of reserves are needed to avoid a material decline in reserves and production. The production rates from oil and gas properties generally decline as reserves are depleted, while related per unit production costs generally increase, due to decreasing reservoir pressures and other factors. Therefore, our estimated proved reserves and future oil, gas and NGL production will decline materially as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional producing zones in existing wells, secondary or tertiary recovery techniques, or acquire additional properties containing proved reserves. Consequently, our future oil, gas and NGL production and related per unit production costs are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems and liabilities, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we seek to acquire crude oil and natural gas properties. Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is duly diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise in the future. Even when problems with a property are identified, we often may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves (as discussed further above), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties. Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates. In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally conduct due diligence to review title on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is due to title defects is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. There is a possibility that we will lose the leases to our oil and gas properties. Our oil and gas revenues are generated through oil and gas leases. These leases are conditioned on the performance of certain obligations, primarily the obligation to produce oil and/or gas or engage in operations designed to result in the production of oil and gas. If production ceases and operations are not commenced within a specified time, the lease may be lost. The loss of our leases may have a material impact on our revenues. 17 Table of Contents In the case of Israeli-based properties, we have interests in licenses that, subject to certain conditions, may result in leases being granted. The leases are subject to certain obligations and are renewable at the discretion of various governmental authorities. As such, if the parties responsible for operations are not able to fulfill their obligations under the leases, the leases may be modified, cancelled, not renewed, or renewed on terms different from the current leases. The modification or cancellation of our leases could eliminate our interests and may have a material impact on our revenues. We are subject to complex laws and regulations relating to environmental protection that can adversely affect the cost, manner, and feasibility of doing business. Our operations and properties are subject to numerous federal, regional, state, tribal, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the release of pollutants or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations govern the following, among other things: ● issuance of permits in connection with exploration, drilling and production activities; ● protection of endangered species; ● amounts and types of emissions and discharges; ● generation, management, and disposition of waste materials; ● reclamation and abandonment of wells and facility sites; and ● remediation of contaminated sites; In addition, these laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities for our failure to comply or for any contamination resulting from our operations. Future environmental laws and regulations, such as the restriction against emission of pollutants from previously unregulated activities or the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we operate, may negatively impact our industry. The cost of satisfying these requirements may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves. Reduced demand for or excess capacity of production services could adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability in the future will depend on many factors, but largely on pricing and utilization rates for our production services. An increase in supply of well servicing rigs and equipment, without a corresponding increase in demand, or decrease in demand for well servicing rigs and equipment could decrease the pricing and utilization rates of our production services, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. We compete with national oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies and other individual producers for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and the equipment, materials, services and employees and other contract personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) required to explore, develop, produce and market crude oil and natural gas. Some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse resources on which to draw than we do. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights, acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves or in acquiring necessary services, equipment, materials and personnel. If we are not successful in our competition for oil and gas reserves or in our marketing of production, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Poor general economic, business, or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. During the last few years, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt, and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. Concerns about global economic conditions have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic recovery in the United States or abroad remains prolonged, demand for petroleum products could diminish or stagnate, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas, and NGLs, affect our vendors’, suppliers’ and customers’ ability to continue operations, and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting fully from price increases and may expose us to other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we have entered into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: ● our actual production is less than hedged volumes; ● there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or ● the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. ● a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural-gas prices. The credit risk of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, insurance companies and other institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. Deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. We have exposure to these financial institutions through our derivative transactions. In addition, if any lender under our credit facility is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment under our credit facility. Moreover, to the extent that purchasers of the Company’s production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. We have no means to market our oil and gas production without the assistance of third parties. The marketability of our production depends upon the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, facilities and third party services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of such services and facilities could impair or delay the production of new wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. A shut-in, delay or discontinuance could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, regulation of oil and natural gas production transportation in the United States or in other countries may affect its ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas on a profitable basis. We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators to a significant extent. The success of the drilling, development and production of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have or expect to have a non-operating working interest is substantially dependent upon the decisions of such third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. Such adverse consequences could result in substantial liabilities to us or reduce the value of our properties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Our operations in Israel may be adversely affected by unique economic, terrorist activities and political developments. We have interests in oil and gas leases and in oil and gas licenses in the waters off Israel. These interests are a significant portion of our future production and cash flow and may be adversely affected by terrorist activities, political and economic developments, including the following: ● war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances, and other political risks ● changes in taxation policies, ● laws and policies of the US and Israel affecting foreign investment, taxation, trade and business conduct, ● foreign exchange restrictions, ● international monetary fluctuations and changes in the value of the US dollar, such as the decline of the US dollar and ● other hazards arising out of Israeli governmental sovereignty over areas in which we own oil and gas interests. Oilfield service is a highly competitive, fragmented industry in which price competition could reduce our profitability. We encounter substantial competition from other oilfield service companies. Our primary market areas are highly fragmented and competitive. The fact that production services equipment are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry and may result in an oversupply of equipment in an area. Oilfield service companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and the intensity of competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. If demand for drilling or production services improves in a region where we operate, our competitors might respond by moving in suitable rigs and production services equipment from other regions. An influx of equipment from other regions could rapidly intensify competition, reduce profitability and make any improvement in demand for production services short-lived. Most production services contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. In addition to pricing and equipment availability, we believe the following factors are also important to our clients in determining which production services provider to select: ● the type and condition of each of the competing well servicing rigs; ● the quality of service and experience of the crews; ● the safety record of the company providing the services; and ● the offering of ancillary services; We may be unable to implement price increases or maintain existing prices on our core services. We periodically seek to increase the prices of our services to offset rising costs and to generate higher returns for our stockholders. However, we operate in a very competitive industry and as a result, we are not always successful in raising, or maintaining our existing prices. Additionally, during periods of increased market demand, a significant amount of new service capacity, including new well service rigs may enter the market, which also puts pressure on the pricing of our services and limits our ability to increase or maintain prices. Furthermore, during periods of declining pricing for our services, we may not be able to reduce our costs accordingly, which could further adversely affect our profitability. Even when we are able to increase our prices, we may not be able to do so at a rate that is sufficient to offset such rising costs. In periods of high demand for oilfield services, a tighter labor market may result in higher labor costs. During such periods, our labor costs could increase at a greater rate than our ability to raise prices for our services. Also, we may not be able to successfully increase prices without adversely affecting our activity levels. The inability to maintain our prices or to increase our prices as costs increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Member of Isramco’s management team own a significant amount of common stock, giving them influence or control in corporate transactions and other matters, and the interests of these individuals could differ from those other shareholders. Member of our management team individually and through companies they beneficially control own 66.02% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 9, 2013. As a result, these shareholders are in a position to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of an amendment to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Our stock price is volatile and could continue to be volatile and has limited liquidity; Accordingly, investors may not be able to sell any significant number of shares of our stock at prevailing market prices. Investor interest in our common stock may not lead to the development of an active or liquid trading market. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The stock prices and trading volumes for our stock has fluctuated widely and the average daily trading volume of our stock continues to be limited and may continue for reasons that may be unrelated to business or results of operations. General economic, market and political conditions could also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price. As a result of the limited trading in our stock, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 