Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties, together with the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, should be carefully considered by those who invest in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and could decrease the value of our common and/or preferred stock. 3 Table of Contents FINANCIAL RISKS We have had losses in the past that may occur in the future. Although we reported net income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, of $53.2 million and $69.1 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2005, we reported a net loss of $25.4 million. A comparison of operating results over the past three years can be found in Results of Operations in MD&A. Many of the factors affecting our operating results are beyond our control, including the volatility of metals prices; interest rates; global or regional political or economic policies; inflation; developments and crises; governmental regulations; continuity of orebodies; and speculation and sales by central banks and other holders and producers of gold and silver in response to these factors. We cannot foresee whether our operations will continue to generate sufficient revenue in order for us to generate net cash from operating activities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience net losses in the future. A substantial or extended decline in metals prices would have a material adverse effect on us. The majority of our revenue is derived from the sale of silver, gold, lead and zinc and, as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these metals. Silver, gold, lead and zinc prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors, including: • Speculative activities; • Relative exchange rates of the U.S. dollar; • Global and regional demand and production; • Recession or reduced economic activity; and • Other political and economic conditions. These factors are largely beyond our control and are difficult to predict. If the market prices for these metals fall below our production or development costs for a sustained period of time, we will experience losses and may have to discontinue exploration, development or operations, or incur asset write-downs at one or more of our properties. In February 2008, we announced an agreement to acquire 70.3% of the Greens Creek mine, where we currently own the remaining 29.7% interest (see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). We have received $400 million in committed debt financing, which will be used towards funding the acquisition. If the market prices for the metals we produce fall below our production or development costs for a sustained period of time, our ability to service our debt obligations associated with this transaction may be adversely affected. The following table sets forth the average daily closing prices of the following metals for 1995, 2001 and each year thereafter through 2007. 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 1995 Silver (1) (per oz.) $ 13.39 $ 11.57 $ 7.31 $ 6.66 $ 4.88 $ 4.60 $ 4.37 $ 5.20 Gold (2) (per oz.) $ 696.66 $ 604.34 $ 444.45 $ 409.21 $ 363.51 $ 309.97 $ 272.00 $ 384.16 Lead (3) (per lb.) $ 1.17 $ 0.58 $ 0.44 $ 0.40 $ 0.23 $ 0.21 $ 0.22 $ 0.29 Zinc (4) (per lb.) $ 1.47 $ 1.49 $ 0.63 $ 0.48 $ 0.38 $ 0.35 $ 0.40 $ 0.47 ______________ (1) London Fix (2) London Final (3) London Metals Exchange — Cash (4) London Metals Exchange — Special High Grade — Cash On February 28, 2008, the closing prices for silver, gold, lead and zinc were $19.24 per ounce, $959.75 per ounce, $1.51 per pound and $1.21 per pound, respectively. Hedging activities could limit our opportunities if prices rise. We periodically enter into hedging activities, such as forward sales contracts and commodity put and call option contracts, to manage the metals prices received on our products and in an attempt to insulate our operating results from declines in those prices. However, hedging may prevent us from realizing possible revenues in the event that the market price of a metal exceeds the price stated in a forward sale or call option contract. In addition, we may experience losses if a 4 Table of Contents counterparty fails to purchase under a contract when the contract price exceeds the spot price of a commodity. We had no open hedging positions at December 31, 2007. Our costs are subject to currency fluctuations. Our products are sold in world markets in United States dollars, although a portion of our Venezuelan operating expenses are incurred in the Venezuelan Bolívar. Foreign exchange fluctuations may materially increase our production costs, future exploration activities and costs of capital. For more specific information with regard to foreign currency as it relates to our operations in Venezuela, see La Camorra Segment in MD&A. Our profitability could be affected by the prices of other commodities. Our business activities are highly dependent on the costs of commodities such as fuel, steel and cement. The recent prices for such commodities have significantly increased and have increased our costs of production and development. A material increase in costs at any of our operating properties could have a significant effect on our profitability. For additional discussion, see Results of Operations in MD&A. Failure to comply with debt covenants could adversely affect our financial results or condition. In September 2005, we entered into a $30.0 million revolving credit agreement that includes various covenants and other limitations related to our indebtedness and investments that require us to maintain customary measures of financial performance. At December 31, 2007, we did not have an outstanding balance under the credit agreement and were in compliance with our covenants. We believe we will be able to comply with such requirements in the future, although failure to do so could adversely affect our results or financial condition and may limit our ability to obtain financing. In February 2008, we received $400 million in committed debt financing for possible use towards our announced acquisition of the remaining 70.3% of the Greens Creek mine (see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Greens Creek transaction). For additional information, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our accounting and other estimates may be imprecise. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosure of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reporting periods. The more significant areas requiring the use of management assumptions and estimates relate to: • Mineral reserves that are the basis for future cash flow estimates and units-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations; • Future metals prices; • Environmental, reclamation and closure obligations; • Asset impairments, including long-lived assets and investments; • Reserves for contingencies and litigation; and • Deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates using different assumptions or conditions. For additional information, see Critical Accounting Estimates in MD&A, Note 1 — Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the risk factors: “Our development of new orebodies and other capital costs may cost more and provide less return than we estimated,” “Our ore reserve estimates may be imprecise” and “Our environmental remediation obligations may exceed the provisions we have made.” Our ability to recognize the benefits of deferred tax assets is dependent on future cash flows and taxable income We recognize the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than not of being realized. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecasted cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, our ability to realize the deferred tax assets could be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax law could limit our ability to obtain the future tax benefits represented by our deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2007, our current and non-current deferred tax asset balances were $14.9 million and $7.4 million, respectively. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our deferred tax assets. 5 Table of Contents OPERATION, DEVELOPMENT, EXPLORATION AND ACQUISITION RISKS Our foreign operations are subject to additional inherent risks. We currently conduct significant mining operations and exploration projects in Venezuela and Mexico. We anticipate that we will continue to conduct significant operations in these and possibly other international locations in the future. Because we conduct operations internationally, we are subject to political and economic risks such as: • The effects of local political, labor and economic developments and unrest; • Significant or abrupt changes in the applicable regulatory or legal climate; • Exchange controls and export or sale restrictions; • Expropriation or nationalization of assets with inadequate compensation; • Currency fluctuations and repatriation restrictions; • Invalidation of governmental orders, permits, or agreements; • Renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits and contracts; • Recurring tax audits and delays in processing tax credits or refunds; • Corruption, demands for improper payments, expropriation, and uncertain legal enforcement and physical security; • Disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations; • Fuel or other commodity shortages; • Illegal mining; • Laws or policies of foreign countries and the United States affecting trade, investment and taxation; • Civil disturbances, war and terrorist actions; and • Seizures of assets. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the United States may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For more information regarding our operations in Mexico and Venezuela, see MD&A, Item 2. — Property Descriptions and other various risk factors relating to our foreign operations. Political, social and regulatory change in Venezuela may adversely affect us. The success of our La Camorra unit is dependent on the political, social and regulatory stability of Venezuela. We believe we will be able to manage and operate the La Camorra unit and related exploration projects successfully. However, we face continued uncertainty in Venezuela relating to political, regulatory, legal enforcement, security and economic matters, exportation and exchange controls, and the possible effects of all of these uncertainties on our operations. Risks due to changes in policy or demands of governmental agencies or their officials, litigation, labor stoppages, industry nationalization, seizures of assets, relationships with small mining groups in the vicinity of our mining operations and the impact on commodities necessary to operate, mean there can be no assurance we will be able to operate without interruptions to our operations. Any such factors or occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our financial results or condition. Specifically, we are currently subject to the following business risks in Venezuela, which are discussed in more detail in MD&A: • In January 2007, the Venezuelan government announced its intentions to nationalize certain strategic sectors, including petroleum and communications, now owned by private entities. There has been no announced determination that the mining industry in Venezuela will be considered for nationalization, however, there can be no assurance that our operations in Venezuela will not be affected by the actions of the government in this capacity. • A fixed exchange rate of Venezuelan currency with the U.S. dollar, which has impacted our costs and operating cash flows. A recently enacted Criminal Exchange Law imposes strict sanctions, both criminal and economic, for currency exchanges outside the officially designated methods or for obtaining foreign currency under false pretenses. Effective January 1, 2007, we implemented a change in the functional currency for our Venezuelan operations from the U.S. dollar to the Bolívar, the local currency in Venezuela. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 6 Table of Contents • The Venezuelan government announced its intention to rescind inactive, non-compliant mining concessions and created a state agency that is responsible for exploration, exploitation, processing and industrialization of gold and other minerals in Venezuela. • In October 2007, the Company’s subsidiary, Minera Hecla Venezolana, C.A. (“MHV”), received notice from the Venezuelan Ministry for Basic Industries and Mining (“MIBAM”) that it would commence administrative proceedings that it said could lead to the revocation of MHV’s La Camorra concession (“Notice”). The Notice said it was based upon the alleged exhaustion of the gold reserves at the La Camorra concession and upon the alleged non-payment of an extraction tax. Hecla has ongoing mining operations at Mina Isidora that process ore at the La Camorra mill and has had, and plans to continue to have, independent contractors that extract ore from the La Camorra concession on the Company’s behalf. The Company and MHV disagree with the assertions in the Notice. We have filed a formal disagreement with MIBAM, and have not received a response. We plan to contest the Notice vigorously and, based upon what we know at present, believe that we have strong legal grounds in our favor. However, there can be no assurance that our operations in Venezuela will not be affected by the government’s proceedings addressed in the Notice. • Venezuela has had high levels of inflation in the recent past. Continued or increased inflation there could increase the prices we pay for products and services, including wages for our employees. • Movement of cash from Venezuela, at the official exchange rate, is regulated by the 2005 Criminal Exchange Act. We are able to repatriate cash to the U.S., however, in doing so we must utilize specific government programs that have been limited or slow, or utilize negotiable instruments on which we have incurred losses (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). Our development of new orebodies and other capital costs may cost more and provide less return than we estimated. Capitalized development projects may cost more and provide less return than we estimate. If we are unable to realize a return on these investments, we may incur a related asset write-down that could adversely affect our financial results or condition. Our ability to sustain or increase our current level of production of metals partly depends on our ability to develop new orebodies and/or expand existing mining operations. Before we can begin a development project, we must first determine whether it is economically feasible to do so. This determination is based on estimates of several factors, including: • Ore reserves; • Expected recovery rates of metals from the ore; • Future metals prices; • Facility and equipment costs; • Availability of affordable sources of power and adequacy of water supply; • Exploration and drilling success; • Capital and operating costs of a development project; • Environmental considerations and permitting; • Adequate access to the site, including competing land uses (such as agriculture and illegal mining); • Currency exchange and repatriation risks; • Applicable tax rates; • Foreign currency fluctuation and inflation rates; • Political risks and regulatory climate in the foreign countries in which we operate; and • Availability of financing. These estimates are based on geological and other interpretive data, which may be imprecise. As a result, actual operating and capital costs and returns from a development project may differ substantially from our estimates as a result of which it may not be economically feasible to continue with a development project. Our ore reserve estimates may be imprecise. Our ore reserve figures and costs are primarily estimates and are not guarantees that we will recover the indicated quantities of these metals. You are strongly cautioned not to place undue reliance on estimates of reserves. Reserves are 7 estimates made by our professional technical personnel, and no assurance can be given that the estimated amount of metal or the indicated level of recovery of these metals will be realized. Reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available data and various assumptions. Our reserve estimates, particularly those for properties that have not yet started producing, may change based on actual production experience. Further, reserves are valued based on estimates of costs and metals prices, which may not be consistent among our operating and non-operating properties. The economic value of ore reserves may be adversely affected by: • Declines in the market price of the various metals we mine; • Increased production or capital costs; • Reduction in the grade or tonnage of the deposit; • Increase in the dilution of the ore; and • Reduced recovery rates. Short-term operating factors relating to our ore reserves, such as the need to sequentially develop orebodies and the processing of new or different ore grades, may adversely affect our cash flow. We may use forward sales contracts and other hedging techniques to partially offset the effects of a drop in the market prices of the metals we mine. However, if the prices of metals that we produce decline substantially below the levels used to calculate reserves for an extended period, we could experience: • Delays in new project development; • Net losses; • Reduced cash flow; • Reductions in reserves; and • Write-downs of asset values. Efforts to expand the finite lives of our mines may not be successful, which could hinder our growth and decrease the value of our stock. One of the risks we face is that our mines have a relatively small amount of proven and probable reserves, primarily because we have low volume, underground operations. Thus, we must continually replace depleted ore reserves. Our ability to expand or replace ore reserves primarily depends on the success of our exploration program. Mineral exploration, particularly for silver and gold, is highly speculative and expensive. It involves many risks and is often nonproductive. Even if we believe we have found a valuable mineral deposit, it may be several years before production is possible. During that time, it may become no longer feasible to produce those minerals for economic, regulatory, political or other reasons. As a result of high costs and other uncertainties, we may not be able to expand or replace our existing ore reserves as they are depleted, which would adversely affect our business and financial position in the future. Our joint development and operating arrangements may not be successful. It is possible we will enter into other joint venture arrangements in the future in order to share the risks and costs of developing and operating properties, similar to our joint venture arrangements related to the Greens Creek unit. In a typical joint venture arrangement, the partners own a proportionate share of the assets, are entitled to indemnification from each other and are only responsible for any future liabilities in proportion to their interest in the joint venture. If a party fails to perform its obligations under a joint venture agreement, we could incur liabilities and losses in excess of our pro-rata share of the joint venture. For further information, please see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On February 21, 2008, we announced that our wholly-owned subsidiary, Rio Grande Silver Inc., acquired the right to earn into a 70% joint venture interest in an approximately 25-square-mile consolidated land package in the Creede Mining District of Colorado. For more information on the terms of the agreement, see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We face inherent risks in acquisitions of other mining companies or properties that may adversely impact our growth strategy. Mines have limited lives, which is an inherent risk in acquiring mining properties. We are actively seeking to expand our mineral reserves by acquiring other mining companies or properties. Although we are pursuing opportunities that we feel are in the best interest of our investors, these pursuits are costly and often unproductive. Inherent risks in acquisitions we may undertake in the future could adversely affect our current business and financial condition and our growth. 8 Table of Contents There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available in the United States and foreign countries where we would consider conducting exploration and/or production activities, and any acquisition we may undertake is subject to inherent risks. In addition to the risk associated with limited mine lives, we may not realize the value of the companies or properties that are acquired due to a possible decline in metals prices, failure to obtain permits, labor problems, changes in regulatory environment, an inability to obtain financing and other factors previously described. Acquisitions of other mining companies or properties may also expose us to new geographic, political, operating, and geological risks. In addition, we face strong competition for companies and properties from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, and we may be unable to acquire attractive companies and mining properties on terms that we consider acceptable. We may be subject to a number of risks and uncertainties if our announced acquisition agreements fail to close. In February 2008, we announced two separate acquisition agreements: (1) an agreement with Kennecott Minerals to acquire the companies that hold 70.3% of the Greens Creek mines, and (2) and agreement to purchase substantially all of the assets of Independence Lead Mines Company (“Independence”). For more information, see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Failure to complete these transactions could negatively impact our stock performance and future operations. For example: • The price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects an assumption that the transactions will be completed. • We must pay expenses related to the transactions, including a nonrefundable deposit and substantial legal and accounting fees, even if the transactions are not completed. This could affect the results of our operations for the period during which the fees are incurred. • In the case of the Greens Creek transaction, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us and Kennecott, until our strategies are announced and executed. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel. Our business depends on good relations with our employees. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of our executive officers, managers, employees and other personnel, including those residing outside of the U.S., and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain all of such employees. We compete with other companies both within and outside the mining industry in connection with the recruiting and retention of qualified employees knowledgeable in mining operations. Due to the relatively small size of our management team, the loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. During 2007, we significantly reduced the workforce at the La Camorra mine and mill through voluntary termination incentives, at a cost of approximately $1.3 million. Our ability to manage our costs at our La Camorra unit in Venezuela depends in part upon the success of our efforts to retain a remaining workforce that will maintain a satisfactory level of production and cost performance. Mining accidents or other adverse events at an operation could decrease our anticipated production. Production may be reduced below our historical or estimated levels as a result of mining accidents; unfavorable ground conditions; work stoppages or slow-downs; lower than expected ore grades; the metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less economical than anticipated; or our equipment or facilities fail to operate properly or as expected. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including: • Environmental hazards; • Political and country risks; • Civil unrest or terrorism; • Industrial accidents; • Labor disputes or strikes; • Unusual or unexpected geologic formations; • Cave-ins; • Explosive rock failures; and 9 Table of Contents • Unanticipated hydrologic conditions, including flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. Such risks could result in: • Personal injury or fatalities; • Damage to or destruction of mineral properties or producing facilities; • Environmental damage; • Delays in exploration, development or mining; • Monetary losses; and • Legal liability. For some risks, we maintain insurance to protect against losses at levels consistent with our historical experience, industry practice and circumstances surrounding each identified risk. Insurance against environmental risks is generally either unavailable or, we believe, too expensive for us, and, therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may affect our cash flow and overall profitability. LEGAL, MARKET AND REGULATORY RISKS We are currently involved in ongoing legal disputes that may materially adversely affect us. There are several ongoing legal disputes in which we are involved. If any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us, is settled on unfavorable terms or otherwise impacts our operations, our financial results or condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, we may ultimately incur environmental remediation costs substantially in excess of the amounts we have accrued and the plaintiffs in environmental proceedings may be awarded substantial damages, which costs and damages we may not be able to recover from our insurers. For a description of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are required to obtain governmental and lessor approvals and permits in order to conduct mining operations. In the ordinary course of business, mining companies are required to seek governmental and lessor approvals and permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex, time-consuming and costly process. The duration and success of our efforts to obtain permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control. Obtaining environmental permits, including the approval of reclamation plans, may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. There can be no assurance that all necessary approvals and permits will be obtained and, if obtained, that the costs involved will not exceed those that we previously estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that we would not proceed with the development or operation. We face substantial governmental regulation and environmental risk. Our business is subject to extensive U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing development, production, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, use of toxic substances, environmental regulations, mine safety and other matters. See risks titled “Our environmental remediation obligations may exceed the provisions we have made” and “Our foreign operations are subject to additional inherent risks.” We have been and are currently involved in lawsuits in which we have been accused of causing environmental damage or violating environmental laws, and we may be subject to similar lawsuits in the future. New legislation and regulations may be adopted at any time that result in additional operating expense, capital expenditures or restrictions and delays in the mining, production or development of our properties. From time to time, the U.S. Congress considers proposed amendments to the General Mining Law of 1872, as amended, which governs mining claims and related activities on federal lands. The extent of any future changes is not known and the potential impact on us as a result of U.S. Congressional action is difficult to predict. Although a majority of our existing U.S. mining operations occur on private or patented property, changes to the General Mining Law, if adopted, could adversely affect our ability to economically develop mineral reserves on federal lands. See also “Our foreign operations are subject to additional inherent risks” and “Political, social and regulatory instability in Venezuela may affect us,” and MD&A. 10 Table of Contents Our environmental remediation obligations may exceed the provisions we have made. We are subject to significant environmental obligations, particularly in northern Idaho. At December 31, 2007, we had accrued $106.1 million as a provision for environmental remediation, $90.2 million of which relates to our various liabilities in Idaho, and there is a significant risk that the costs of remediation could materially exceed this provision. For an overview of our potential environmental liabilities, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The titles to some of our properties may be defective or challenged. Unpatented mining claims constitute a significant portion of our undeveloped property holdings, the validity of which could be uncertain and may be contested. Although we have conducted title reviews of our property holdings, title review does not necessarily preclude third parties from challenging our title. In accordance with mining industry practice, we do not generally obtain title opinions until we decide to develop a property. Therefore, while we have attempted to acquire satisfactory title to our undeveloped properties, some titles may be defective. The price of our common stock has a history of volatility and could decline in the future. Our common and preferred stocks are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price for our common shares has been volatile, often based on: • Fluctuating proven and probable reserves; • Factors unrelated to our financial performance or future prospects, such as global economic developments and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries; • Changes in metals prices, particularly gold and silver; • Our results of operations and financial condition as reflected in our public news releases or periodic filings with the SEC; • Foreign political and regulatory risk; • The success of our exploration program; • Ability to meet production estimates; • Environmental and legal risk; • The extent of analytical coverage concerning our business; and • The trading volume and general market interest in our securities. The market price of our common shares at any given point in time may not accurately reflect our long-term value, and may prevent shareholders from realizing a profit on their investment. Our Series B Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $50 per share or $7.9 million. If we were liquidated, holders of our preferred stock would be entitled to receive approximately $7.9 million (plus any accrued and unpaid dividends) from any liquidation proceeds before holders of our common stock would be entitled to receive any proceeds. Our Series B Preferred Stock ranks on parity with our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $100 per share or $201.7 million. If we were liquidated, holders of our preferred stock would be entitled to receive approximately $201.7 million (which includes any accrued and unpaid dividends) from any liquidation proceeds before holders of our common stock would be entitled to receive any proceeds. Our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ranks on parity with our Series B Preferred Stock. We may not be able to pay preferred stock dividends in the future. In July 2005, we paid outstanding dividends in arrears on our Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock totaling approximately $2.3 million. Since July 2005, we have continued to pay regular quarterly dividends on our Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. The annual dividend payable on the Series B preferred stock is currently $0.6 million. The expected dividend payable on our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will be $3.7 million in April 2008, and then $3.2 million quarterly thereafter. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2004, we had not declared preferred dividends on Series B preferred stock since the second quarter of 2000. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future. Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could reduce our earnings per share. 11 Table of Contents We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. Any such acquisition could be material to us and could significantly increase the size and scope of our business, including our market capitalization. To the extent we issue substantial additional equity securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted and our earnings per share could be reduced. We currently have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue up to $175.0 million in common stock and warrants in connection with business combination transactions. If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock or other equity will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, shares of our common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. We may issue substantial additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with material acquisition transactions. The market price of our common stock could decline if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law could delay or deter tender offers or takeover attempts that may offer a premium for our common stock. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that transaction would be beneficial to stockholders. These impediments include: • The classification of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, which makes it more difficult to quickly replace board members; • The ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights as it deems appropriate without stockholder approval; • A provision that special meetings of our board of directors may be called only by our chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors; • A provision that special meetings of stockholders may only be called pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of our entire board of directors; • A prohibition against action by written consent of our stockholders; • A provision that our board members may only be removed for cause and by an affirmative vote of at least 80% of the outstanding voting stock; • A provision that our stockholders comply with advance-notice provisions to bring director nominations or other matters before meetings of our stockholders; • A prohibition against certain business combinations with an acquirer of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after such acquisition unless the stock acquisition or the business combination is approved by our board prior to the acquisition of the 15% interest, or after such acquisition our board and the holders of two-thirds of the other common stock approve the business combination; and • A prohibition against our entering into certain business combinations with interested stockholders without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock. The existence of these provisions may deprive stockholders of an opportunity to sell our stock at a premium over prevailing prices. The potential inability of our stockholders to obtain a control premium could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 