Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties, together with the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, should be carefully considered by those who invest in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and could decrease the value of our common and/or preferred stock. FINANCIAL RISKS Global financial events may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The 2008 credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system had an impact on our business and financial position, and a similar financial event in the future may also impact us. The continuation or re-emergence of the financial crisis may limit our ability to raise capital through credit and equity markets. As discussed further below, the prices of the metals that we produce are affected by a number of factors, and it is unknown how these factors may be impacted by a global financial event. We have had losses that could reoccur in the future. Although we reported net income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2007 of $151.2 million, $49.0 million, $67.8 million and $53.2 million, respectively, we reported a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $66.6 million. A comparison of operating results over the past three years can be found in Results of Operations in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Many of the factors affecting our operating results are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the volatility of metals prices; smelter terms; rock and soil conditions; seismic events; diesel fuel prices; interest rates; global or regional political or economic policies; inflation; availability and cost of labor; economic developments and crises; governmental regulations; continuity of orebodies; ore grades; recoveries; and speculation, purchases and sales by central banks and other holders and producers of gold and silver in response to these factors. We cannot foresee whether our operations will continue to generate sufficient revenue in order for us to generate net cash from operating activities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience net losses in the future. Commodity risk management activities could expose us to losses. We periodically enter into risk management activities, such as financially-settled forward sales contracts and commodity put and call option contracts, to manage the prices received on the metals we produce. Such activities are utilized to attempt to insulate our operating results from changes in prices for those metals. However, such activities may prevent us from realizing possible revenues in the event that the market price of a metal exceeds the price stated in a forward sale or call option contract. In addition, we may experience losses if a counterparty fails to purchase under a contract when the contract price exceeds the spot price of a commodity. 6 We utilize financially settled forward contract programs to manage the exposure to changes in lead and zinc prices contained in our concentrate shipments between the time of sale and final settlement, and to manage the exposure of changes in the prices of lead and zinc contained in our forecasted future concentrate shipments. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these base metals forward contract programs. The financial terms of settlement of the Coeur d’Alene Basin environmental litigation and other claims may materially impact our cash resources and our access to additional financing. On September 8, 2011, a Consent Decree (the “Consent Decree”) settling environmental litigation and related claims involving Hecla Limited pertaining to historic releases of mining wastes in the Coeur d'Alene Basin was approved and entered by the U.S. District Court in Idaho. The Consent Decree resolved all existing claims of the United States, the Coeur d'Alene Indian Tribe, and the State of Idaho (“Plaintiffs”) against Hecla Limited and its affiliates under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and certain other statutes for past response costs, future environmental remediation costs, and natural resource damages related to historic releases of mining wastes in the Coeur d'Alene River Basin, as well as all remaining obligations of Hecla Limited with respect to the Bunker Hill Superfund Site. In addition to the approximately $169 million already paid under the Consent Decree in 2011, Hecla Limited remains obligated under the Consent Decree to make the following payments: • $25 million of cash by October 8, 2012; • $15 million of cash by October 8, 2013; and • approximately $55.4 million by August 2014, as quarterly payments of the proceeds from the exercise of any outstanding Series 1 and Series 3 warrants (which have an exercise price of between $2.44 and $2.49 per share) during the quarter, with the remaining balance, if any, due in August 2014. If additional warrants are not exercised, the requirement to pay up to $95.4 million (excluding interest) in cash over the next approximately three years will cause us to use a significant portion of either our cash currently on hand, or future cash resources. Our cash on hand at December 31, 2011 was $266.5 million; however, there can be no assurance that we will have the cash on hand to meet these obligations. Financial terms of settlement also require that Hecla Mining Company or Hecla Limited post third party surety in some form to secure the remaining payments. Obtaining surety causes us to incur costs, and also to utilize credit capacity which could otherwise be used to fund other areas of our business, including operations and capital expenditures. Moreover, there is no guarantee that we will be able maintain such surety, in which case we could be in default of the Consent Decree, which could have a material adverse effect on Hecla Limited’s or our results from operations or financial position. More information about the terms of settlement is set forth in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our profitability could be affected by the prices of other commodities and services. Our business activities are highly dependent on the costs of commodities and services such as fuel, steel, cement and electricity. The recent prices for such commodities have been volatile and may increase our costs of production and development. A material increase in costs at any of our operating properties could have a significant effect on our profitability. For additional discussion, see Results of Operations in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our accounting and other estimates may be imprecise. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosure of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reporting periods. The more significant areas requiring the use of management assumptions and estimates relate to: • mineral reserves and other mineralized material that are the basis for future income and cash flow estimates and units-of-production depreciation, depletion and amortization calculations; • future metals prices; • environmental, reclamation and closure obligations; 7 • asset impairments; • reserves for contingencies and litigation; and • deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates using different assumptions or conditions. For additional information, see Critical Accounting Estimates in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the risk factors: “Our development of new orebodies and other capital costs may cost more and provide less return than we estimated,” “Our ore reserve estimates may be imprecise,” “Our environmental obligations may exceed the provisions we have made,” and “We are currently involved in ongoing legal disputes that may materially adversely affect us.” A substantial or extended decline in metals prices would have a material adverse effect on us. Our revenue is derived from the sale of silver, gold, lead and zinc and, as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these metals. Silver, gold, lead and zinc prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors, including: • speculative activities; • relative exchange rates of the U.S. dollar; • global and regional demand and production; • political instability; • inflation, recession or increased or reduced economic activity; and • other political, regulatory and economic conditions. These factors are largely beyond our control and are difficult to predict. If the market prices for these metals fall below our production or development costs for a sustained period of time, we will experience losses and may have to discontinue exploration, development or operations, or incur asset write-downs at one or more of our properties. The following table sets forth the average daily closing prices of the following metals for the year ended December 31, 2007 and each year thereafter through 2011. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Silver (1) (per oz.) $ 35.11 $ 20.16 $ 14.65 $ 15.02 $ 13.39 Gold (2) (per oz.) $ 1,569.00 $ 1,224.66 $ 972.98 $ 871.71 $ 696.66 Lead (3) (per lb.) $ 1.09 $ 0.97 $ 0.78 $ 0.95 $ 1.17 Zinc (4) (per lb.) $ 1.00 $ 0.98 $ 0.75 $ 0.85 $ 1.47 ______________ (1) London Fix (2) London Final (3) London Metals Exchange — Cash (4) London Metals Exchange — Special High Grade — Cash On February 20, 2012, the closing prices for silver, gold, lead and zinc were $33.56 per ounce, $1,733 per ounce, $0.92 per pound and $0.89 per pound, respectively. An extended decline in metals prices, an increase in operating or capital costs, or our inability to convert exploration potential to reserves may cause us to record write-downs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. 8 When events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable, we review the recoverability of the carrying value by estimating the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment must be recognized when the carrying value of the asset exceeds these cash flows, and recognizing impairment write-downs could negatively impact our results of operations. Metal price estimates are a key component used in the analysis of the carrying values of our assets, as the evaluation approach involves comparing carrying values to the average estimated undiscounted cash flows resulting from operating plans using various metals price scenarios. Our estimates of undiscounted cash flows for our long-lived assets also include an estimate of the market value of the exploration potential beyond the current operating plans. There were no events or changes in circumstances that caused us to evaluate the carrying values of our long-lived assets as of December 31, 2011. However, if the prices of silver, gold, zinc and lead decline for an extended period of time, if we fail to control production costs, or if we do not realize the mineable ore reserves or exploration potential at our mining properties, we may be required to evaluate the carrying values of out long-lived assets and recognize asset write-downs in the future. In addition, the perceived market value of the exploration potential of our properties is dependent upon prevailing metals prices as well as our ability to discover economic ore. A decline in metals prices for an extended period of time or our inability to convert exploration potential to reserves could significantly reduce our estimations of the value of the exploration potential at our properties and result in asset write-downs. Our ability to recognize the benefits of deferred tax assets is dependent on future cash flows and taxable income We recognize the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than not of being realized. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against deferred tax assets reducing the value of such assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecasted income from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. Metal price estimates are a key component used in the determination of our ability to realize the expected future benefit of our deferred tax assets. To the extent that future taxable income differs significantly from estimates as a result of a decline in metals prices or other factors, our ability to realize the deferred tax assets could be impacted. Additionally, significant future issuances of common stock or common stock equivalents could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Future changes in tax law or changes in ownership structure could limit our ability to utilize our recorded tax assets. As of December 31, 2010, we removed substantially all deferred tax valuation allowances, with the exception of certain amounts related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and our current and non-current deferred tax asset balances were $27.8 million and $88.0 million, respectively. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our deferred tax assets. Returns for Investments in Pension Plans and Pension Plan Funding Requirements Are Uncertain We maintain defined benefit pension plans for employees, which provide for specified payments after retirement for most employees. The ability of the pension plans to provide the specified benefits depends on our funding of the plans and returns on investments made by the plans. Returns, if any, on investments are subject to fluctuations based on investment choices and market conditions. A sustained period of low returns or losses on investments could require us to fund the pension plans to a greater extent than anticipated. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our pension plans. OPERATION, DEVELOPMENT, EXPLORATION AND ACQUISITION RISKS Mining accidents or other adverse events at an operation could decrease our anticipated production. Production may be reduced below our historical or estimated levels as a result of mining accidents; unfavorable ground conditions; work stoppages or slow-downs; lower than expected ore grades; the metallurgical characteristics of the ore that are less economic than anticipated; or because our equipment or facilities fail to operate properly or as expected. For example, in the second quarter of 2010, mining activities at the Lucky Friday mine stopped for approximately two weeks due to some deterioration of shaft infrastructure at the #2 Shaft, which is the mine's secondary escape way. Upon completion of repairs to #2 Shaft, the mine returned to normal production. In April 2011, a fatal accident occurred at the Lucky Friday mine resulting in a cessation of operations at the mine for approximately 10 days. In November 2011, an accident occurred as part of the construction of the #4 Shaft at the Lucky Friday mine, resulting in the fatality of one contractor employee. In an unrelated incident, in December 2011, a rock burst occurred in a primary access way at the Lucky Friday mine and injured seven employees, with no fatalities as a result of that incident. Each of these events temporarily suspended operations at the Lucky Friday mine and adversely impacted production. Other closures or impacts on operations or production may occur at any of our mines at any time, whether related to accidents, changes in conditions, changes to regulatory policy, or as precautionary measures. 9 At the end of 2011, MSHA began a special impact inspection at the Lucky Friday mine which resulted in an order closing down the Silver Shaft, the primary access way from surface at the Lucky Friday mine, until we remove loose material from the Silver Shaft. This occurred despite the fact that the Silver Shaft was not involved in any of the accidents at the mine in 2011. Underground access will be limited as this work is being performed, and we anticipate that production at the Lucky Friday will be suspended until early 2013 as a result. We anticipate returning to full production levels at the Lucky Friday once the Silver Shaft work and work related to bypassing the December 2011 rock burst is complete; however, no assurance can be made as to when this will occur or as to the cost of the material removal and related work. For further information, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Recent accidents and other events at our Lucky Friday mine could have additional adverse consequences to us. Hecla Limited may face enforcement actions, as well as additional orders from MSHA, as a result of MSHA's inspections and investigations of events at our Lucky Friday mine including the April 2011 fatal ground fall accident, the rock burst incident in December 2011, and the order closing the Silver Shaft for the removal of loose material. Hecla Limited could also face penalties (including monetary penalties) from MSHA or other governmental agencies relating to these incidents and any other orders or citations received by Hecla Limited. In addition, MSHA periodically notifies certain mines that a potential pattern of violations (“PPOV”) may exist based upon an initial statistical screening of violation history and pattern criteria review by MSHA. Receipt of notice of a PPOV typically triggers an undertaking by a mine to implement corrective actions, and if certain criteria are not met, MSHA could subsequently issue a Notice of Pattern of Violations (“NPOV”). Receipt of a NPOV would, among other things, impose certain onerous conditions on the mine, including the requirement to pass an inspection in which no significant and substantial violations of a mandatory health or safety standard are found before termination of the NPOV. In light of the citations/orders received in 2011 and 2012, it is possible that the Lucky Friday mine could receive a PPOV. Finally, it is possible that Hecla Limited could face litigation relating to the 2011 incidents at the Lucky Friday mine. We may not resolve these claims favorably, and each one of the foregoing possibilities could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry that may not be fully covered by insurance. Our business is capital intensive, requiring ongoing capital investment for the replacement, modernization or expansion of equipment and facility. Our mining and milling operations are subject to risks of process upsets and equipment malfunctions. Equipment and supplies may from time to time be unavailable on a timely basis. Our business is subject to a number of other risks and hazards including: • environmental hazards; • unusual or unexpected geologic formations; • rock bursts and ground falls; • seismic activity; • underground fires or floods; • explosive rock failures; • unanticipated hydrologic conditions, including flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions; • political and country risks; • civil unrest or terrorism; • industrial accidents; • labor disputes or strikes; and • our operating mines have tailing ponds which could fail or leak as a result of seismic activity or for other reasons. Such risks could result in: • personal injury or fatalities; 10 • damage to or destruction of mineral properties or producing facilities; • environmental damage; • delays in exploration, development or mining; • monetary losses; • legal liability; and • temporary or permanent closure of facilities. We maintain insurance to protect against losses that may result from some of these risks, such as property loss and business interruption, in amounts we believe to be reasonably consistent with our historical experience, industry practice and circumstances surrounding each identified risk. Such insurance, however, contains exclusions and limitations on coverage, particularly with respect to environmental liability and political risk. There can be no assurance that claims would be paid under such insurance policies in connection with a particular event. Insurance against environmental risks is generally either unavailable or, we believe, too expensive for us, and we therefore do not maintain environmental insurance. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may have an adverse effect on our business. Our development of new orebodies and other capital costs may be higher and provide less return than we estimated. Capitalized development projects may cost more and provide less return than we estimate. If we are unable to realize a return on these investments, we may incur a related asset write-down that could adversely affect our financial results or condition. Our ability to sustain or increase our current level of metals production partly depends on our ability to develop new orebodies and/or expand existing mining operations. Before we can begin a development project, we must first determine whether it is economically feasible to do so. This determination is based on estimates of several factors, including: • ore reserves; • expected recovery rates of metals from the ore; • future metals prices; • facility and equipment costs; • availability of adequate manpower; • availability of affordable sources of power and adequacy of water supply; • exploration and drilling success; • capital and operating costs of a development project; • environmental considerations and permitting; • adequate access to the site, including competing land uses (such as agriculture); • applicable tax rates; • foreign currency fluctuation and inflation rates; and • availability of financing. These estimates are based on geological and other interpretive data, which may be imprecise. As a result, actual operating and capital costs and returns from a development project may differ substantially from our estimates, and, as such, it may not be economically feasible to continue with a development project. 11 Our ore reserve estimates may be imprecise. Our ore reserve figures and costs are primarily estimates and are not guarantees that we will recover the indicated quantities of these metals. You are strongly cautioned not to place undue reliance on estimates of reserves. Reserves are estimates made by our professional technical personnel, and no assurance can be given that the estimated amount of metal or the indicated level of recovery of these metals will be realized. Reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available data and various assumptions. Our reserve estimates may change based on actual production experience. Further, reserves are valued based on estimates of costs and metals prices, which may not be consistent among our properties. The economic value of ore reserves may be adversely affected by: • declines in the market price of the various metals we mine; • increased production or capital costs; • reduction in the grade or tonnage of the deposit; • increase in the dilution of the ore; and • reduced recovery rates. Short-term operating factors relating to our ore reserves, such as the need to sequentially develop orebodies and the processing of new or different ore grades, may adversely affect our cash flow. If the prices of metals that we produce decline substantially below the levels used to calculate reserves for an extended period, we could experience: • delays in new project development; • net losses; • reduced cash flow; • reductions in reserves; • write-downs of asset values; and • mine closure. Efforts to expand the finite lives of our mines may not be successful or could result in significant demands on our liquidity, which could hinder our growth and decrease the value of our stock. One of the risks we face is that our mines are depleting assets. Thus, we must continually replace depleted ore reserves by locating and developing additional ore. Our ability to expand or replace ore reserves primarily depends on the success of our exploration programs. Mineral exploration, particularly for silver and gold, is highly speculative and expensive. It involves many risks and is often non-productive. Even if we believe we have found a valuable mineral deposit, it may be several years before production from that deposit is possible. During that time, it may become no longer feasible to produce those minerals for economic, regulatory, political or other reasons. As a result of high costs and other uncertainties, we may not be able to expand or replace our existing ore reserves as they are depleted, which would adversely affect our business and financial position in the future. To increase production and mine life at the Lucky Friday mine, in 2011 we continued progress on the #4 Shaft project. We commenced engineering and construction activities on #4 Shaft in late 2009, and our Board of Directors gave its final approval of the project in August 2011. Work on the project thus far has included: detailed shaft design, excavation of the hoist room and off shaft development access to shaft facilities, hoist installation, placement and receipt of orders for major equipment purchases, 367 feet of vertical shaft excavation, and other construction activities. The #4 Shaft project, as currently designed, is expected to involve development down to the 8800 foot level and capital expenditures of approximately $200 million, which includes approximately $90 million that has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2011. At the end of 2011, MSHA began a special impact inspection at the Lucky Friday mine, and as a result MSHA ordered the Silver Shaft to be closed until we remove loose material from the shaft. The Silver Shaft is the primary access way from the surface at the Lucky Friday, and the order has resulted in a temporary suspension of most operations at the Lucky Friday, including work on #4 Shaft. When access to the #4 Shaft project is restored, we believe that our current capital resources will allow us to proceed. However, there are a number of factors that could affect completion of the project, including: i) a significant decline in metals prices, (ii) a reduction in available cash or credit, whether arising from decreased cash flow or other uses of available cash, or (iii) a significant increase in operating or capital costs. An increase in the capital cost could potentially require us to suspend the project or access additional capital through debt financing, the sale of securities, or other external sources. This additional financing could be costly or unavailable. 12 Our joint development and operating arrangements may not be successful. We have in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into joint venture arrangements in order to share the risks and costs of developing and operating properties. In a typical joint venture arrangement, the partners own a proportionate share of the assets, are entitled to indemnification from each other and are only responsible for any future liabilities in proportion to their interest in the joint venture. If a party fails to perform its obligations under a joint venture agreement, we could incur liabilities and losses in excess of our pro-rata share of the joint venture. We make investments in exploration and development projects that may have to be written off in the event we do not proceed to a commercially viable mining operation. On February 21, 2008, we announced that our wholly-owned subsidiary, Rio Grande Silver Inc. ("RGS"), acquired the right to earn into a 70% joint venture interest in an approximately 25-square-mile consolidated land package in the Creede Mining District of Colorado. RGS earned into the 70% interest in 2011. In December 2011, RGS completed the acquisition of the remaining 30% interest of the original joint venture, while maintaining a 70% interest in a new joint venture holding additional exploration property within the Creede District, for shares of Hecla common stock valued at approximately $33.8 million on the date that the transaction was completed. For more information on the terms of the agreement, see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our ability to market our metals production may be affected by disruptions or closures of custom smelters and/or refining facilities. We sell substantially all of our metallic concentrates to custom smelters. Our doré bars are sent to refiners for further processing before being sold to metal traders. If our ability to sell concentrates to our contracted smelters becomes unavailable to us, it is possible our operations could be adversely affected. See Note 11of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the distribution of our sales and our significant customers. We face inherent risks in acquisitions of other mining companies or properties that may adversely impact our growth strategy. Mines have limited lives, which is an inherent risk in acquiring mining properties. We are actively seeking to expand our mineral reserves by acquiring other mining companies or properties. Although we are pursuing opportunities that we feel are in the best interest of our shareholders, these pursuits are costly and often unproductive. Inherent risks in acquisitions we may undertake in the future could adversely affect our current business and financial condition and our growth. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available in the United States and foreign countries where we would consider conducting exploration and/or production activities, and any acquisition we may undertake is subject to inherent risks. In addition to the risk associated with limited mine lives, we may not realize the value of the companies or properties that are acquired due to a possible decline in metals prices, failure to obtain permits, labor problems, changes in regulatory environment, failure to achieve anticipated synergies, an inability to obtain financing, and other factors previously described. Acquisitions of other mining companies or properties may also expose us to new geographic, political, operating, and geological risks. In addition, we face strong competition for companies and properties from other mining companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, and we may be unable to acquire attractive companies and mining properties on terms that we consider acceptable. Our business depends on finding skilled miners and maintaining good relations with our employees. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of our executive officers, managers, employees and other personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain all of such employees. We compete with other companies both within and outside the mining industry in connection with the recruiting and retention of qualified employees knowledgeable of the mining business. From time to time, we have encountered, and may in the future encounter, difficulty recruiting skilled mining personnel at acceptable wage and benefit levels in a competitive labor market. Temporary or extended lay-offs due to mine closures may exacerbate such issues and result in vacancies or the need to hire less skilled or efficient employees. The loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. The Lucky Friday mine is our only operation subject to a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on April 30, 2016. 13 We were recently ordered by MSHA to remove loose material from the Silver Shaft, the primary access way from surface at the Lucky Friday mine. As this rehabilitation work is performed, underground access at the Lucky Friday mine will be limited, temporarily suspending production and underground work there. As a result, Hecla Limited laid off 121 employees, or approximately 42% of the workforce at the Lucky Friday mine. As the Silver Shaft work is completed, we anticipate that employment levels at the Lucky Friday mine will return to where they were at prior to the suspension of production. Although we believe that we will be able to successfully reassemble the workforce at the Lucky Friday as underground work and production resumes, competition from other companies and other factors may make recruitment difficult. Competition from other mining companies may harm our business. We compete with other mining companies to attract and retain key executives, skilled labor, contractors and other employees. We compete with other mining companies for the services of skilled personnel and contractors and their specialized equipment, components and supplies, such as drill rigs, necessary for exploration and development. We also compete with other mining companies for rights to mine properties. We may be unable to continue to obtain the services of skilled personnel and contractors or specialized equipment or supplies, or to acquire additional rights to mine properties. We may be subject to a number of unanticipated risks related to inadequate infrastructure. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, bridges, power sources and water supply are important determinants, which affect capital and operating costs. Unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, sabotage, government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could adversely affect our mining operations. Our foreign activities are subject to additional inherent risks. We currently conduct exploration and pre-development projects in Mexico and continue to own assets, real estate and mineral interests there. We anticipate that we will continue to conduct operations in Mexico and possibly other international locations in the future. Because we conduct operations internationally, we are subject to political and economic risks such as: • the effects of local political, labor and economic developments and unrest; • significant or abrupt changes in the applicable regulatory or legal climate; • exchange controls and export restrictions; • expropriation or nationalization of assets with inadequate compensation; • currency fluctuations and repatriation restrictions; • invalidation of governmental orders, permits or agreements; • renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits and contracts; • corruption, demands for improper payments, expropriation, and uncertain legal enforcement and physical security; • disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations; • fuel or other commodity shortages; • illegal mining; 14 • laws or policies of foreign countries and the United States affecting trade, investment and taxation; • civil disturbances, war and terrorist actions; and • seizures of assets. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the United States may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. LEGAL, MARKET AND REGULATORY RISKS We are currently involved in ongoing legal disputes that may materially adversely affect us. There are several ongoing legal disputes in which we are involved, including a putative class action lawsuit recently filed against us, and additional actions may be filed against us. We may be subject to future claims, including relating to environmental damage, safety conditions at our mines, the two fatal accidents that occurred at the Lucky Friday mine and other related matters. The outcomes of these pending and potential claims are uncertain. We may not resolve these claims favorably. Depending on the outcome, these actions could have adverse financial effects or cause reputational harm to us. If any of these disputes result in a substantial monetary judgment against us, are settled on terms in excess of our current accruals, or otherwise impact our operations, our financial results or condition could be materially adversely affected. For a description of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are required to obtain governmental and lessor approvals and permits in order to conduct mining operations. In the ordinary course of business, mining companies are required to seek governmental and lessor approvals and permits for expansion of existing operations or for the commencement of new operations. For example, we estimate that our Greens Creek tailings impoundment area has sufficient capacity to meet our needs through 2014. In order to increase the tailings capacity at the mine, a permit is required. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex, time-consuming and costly process. The duration and success of our efforts to obtain permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control. Obtaining environmental permits, including the approval of reclamation plans, may increase costs and cause delays or halt the continuation of mining operations depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. Interested parties may seek to prevent issuance of permits and intervene in the process or pursue extensive appeal rights. Past or ongoing violations of government mining laws could provide a basis to revoke existing permits or to deny the issuance of additional permits. In addition, evolving reclamation or environmental concerns may threaten our ability to renew existing permits or obtain new permits in connection with future development, expansions and operations. There can be no assurance that all necessary approvals and permits will be obtained and, if obtained, that the costs involved will not exceed those that we previously estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that we would not proceed with the development or operation. We are required to post surety bonds or cash collateral to secure our reclamation obligations and we may be unable to obtain the required surety bonds or may not have the resources to provide cash collateral. Similarly, we will require the consent of MSHA to reopen the Silver Shaft and resume operations at the Lucky Friday mine upon completion of refurbishing the shaft walls. We face substantial governmental regulation and environmental risk. Our business is subject to extensive U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing development, production, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, use of toxic substances, environmental regulations, mine safety and other matters. For example, in 2011 both of our operating mines received several citations, and the Lucky Friday mine also received several orders, under the Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as administered by MSHA. Further, we have been and are currently involved in lawsuits or disputes in which we have been accused of causing environmental damage, violating environmental laws, or violating environmental permits, and we may be subject to similar lawsuits or disputes in the future. See risk titled “Our environmental obligations may exceed the provisions we have made.” 15 Exposure to these liabilities arises not only from our existing operations, but from operations that have been closed or sold to third parties. We are required to reclaim properties after mining is completed and specific requirements vary among jurisdictions. In some cases, we may be required to provide financial assurances as security for reclamation costs, which may exceed our estimates for such costs. Our historical operations and the historical operations of entities and properties we have acquired have occasionally been alleged to have generated environmental contamination. We could also be held liable for worker exposure to hazardous substances. There can be no assurances that we will at all times be in compliance with all environmental, health and safety regulations or that steps to achieve compliance would not materially adversely affect our business. In addition to existing regulatory requirements, legislation and regulations may be adopted or permit limits reduced at any time that result in additional operating expense, capital expenditures or restrictions and delays in the mining, production or development of our properties. Mining accidents and fatalities, whether or not at our mines or related to silver mining, may increase the likelihood of additional regulation or changes in law. In addition, enforcement or regulatory tools and methods available to governmental regulators such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency which have not been used or seldomly used against us, could in the future be used against us. Federal or state environmental or mine safety regulatory agencies may order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations, or financial condition. Legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and green house gas emissions are in various phases of consideration. If adopted, such measures could increase our cost of environmental compliance and also delay or otherwise negatively affect efforts to obtain permits and other regulatory approvals with regard to existing and new facilities. Proposed measures could also result in increased cost of fuel and other consumables used at our operations, including the diesel generation of electricity at our Greens Creek operation if we are unable to regularly access utility power. Climate change legislation may also affect our smelter customers who burn fossil fuels, resulting in increased costs to us, and may affect the market for the metals we produce with effects on prices that are not possible for us to predict. From time to time, the U.S. Congress considers proposed amendments to the General Mining Law of 1872, as amended, which governs mining claims and related activities on federal lands. The extent of any future changes is not known and the potential impact on us as a result of U.S. Congressional action is difficult to predict. Changes to the General Mining Law, if adopted, could adversely affect our ability to economically develop mineral reserves on federal lands. Although we are not currently mining on federal land, exploration and future mining could occur on federal land. The Clean Water Act requires permits for operations that discharge into waters of the United States. Such permitting has been a frequent subject of litigation by environmental advocacy groups, which has resulted, and may in the future result, in declines in such permits or extensive delays in receiving them. This may result in delays in, or in some instances preclude, the commencement or continuation of development or production operations. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits challenging permits or failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the suspension, denial, or revocation of required permits, which could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations, or financial condition. Our environmental obligations may exceed the provisions we have made. We are subject to significant environmental obligations, particularly in northern Idaho through our subsidiary Hecla Limited. At December 31, 2011, we had accrued $153.8 million as a provision for environmental obligations, including $110.2 million accrued for Hecla Limited’s various liabilities in Idaho. As of the date of this report, these accrual balances included a total of $95.5 million for our remaining obligation for environmental claims with respect to the entire Coeur d’Alene Basin in northern Idaho. A settlement of the Coeur d’Alene Basin environmental litigation and related claims was finalized with entry of the Consent Decree by the Court in September 2011. For an overview of our potential environmental liabilities, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Shipment of our products is subject to regulatory and related risks. Certain of the products we ship to our customers are subject to regulatory requirements regarding packaging, handling and shipping of products that may be considered to be dangerous to human health or the environment. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with all material regulations applicable to packaging, handling and shipping our products, the chemical properties of our products or existing regulations could change and cause us to fall out of compliance, or force us to incur substantial additional expenditures in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulations. Further, we do not ship our own products but instead rely on third party carriers to ship our products to our customers. To the extent that any of our carriers are unable or unwilling to ship our products in accordance with applicable regulations, including because of difficulty in obtaining, or increased cost of, insurance, we could be forced to find alternative shipping arrangements, assuming such alternatives would be available. Any such changes to our current shipping arrangements could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. 16 The titles to some of our properties may be defective or challenged. Unpatented mining claims constitute a significant portion of our undeveloped property holdings, the validity of which could be uncertain and may be contested. Although we have conducted title reviews of our property holdings, title review does not necessarily preclude third parties from challenging our title. In accordance with mining industry practice, we do not generally obtain title opinions until we decide to develop a property. Therefore, while we have attempted to acquire satisfactory title to our undeveloped properties, some titles may be defective. The price of our stock has a history of volatility and could decline in the future. Our common and outstanding preferred stocks are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price for our stock has been volatile, often based on: • changes in metals prices, particularly silver; • our results of operations and financial condition as reflected in our public news releases or periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • fluctuating proven and probable reserves; • factors unrelated to our financial performance or future prospects, such as global economic developments, market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries, or the reliability of metals markets; • political and regulatory risk; • the success of our exploration programs; • ability to meet production estimates; • environmental, safety and legal risk; • the extent of analytical coverage concerning our business; and • the trading volume and general market interest in our securities. The market price of our stock at any given point in time may not accurately reflect our value, and may prevent shareholders from realizing a profit on their investment. Our Series B Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $50 per share or $7.9 million. If we were liquidated, holders of our preferred stock would be entitled to receive approximately $7.9 million (plus any accrued and unpaid dividends) from any liquidation proceeds before holders of our common stock would be entitled to receive any proceeds. We may not be able to pay common or preferred stock dividends in the future. Since July 2005, we paid regular quarterly dividends on our Series B Preferred Stock through the third quarter of 2008. The annual dividend payable on the Series B Preferred Stock is currently $0.6 million. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2004, we had not declared preferred dividends on Series B Preferred Stock since the second quarter of 2000. Series B Preferred Stock dividends due on January 1, 2009, for the fourth quarter of 2008 and dividends due for the three quarters thereafter were deferred. In January 2010 we paid all dividends in arrears and dividends due for the fourth quarter of 2009 for the Series B Preferred Stock, and we paid all regular quarterly dividends for 2010 and 2011. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay preferred stock dividends in the future. In September 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a common stock dividend policy that links the amount of any declared dividend on our common stock to our average quarterly realized silver price in the preceding quarter. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on potential dividend amounts at various silver prices. On November 8, 2011, our Board of Directors declared the first quarterly silver price-linked dividend of $0.02 per share ($5.6 million total), based on the average realized silver price in the third quarter of 2011 of $37.02 per ounce. On February 17, 2012, our Board of Directors declared a silver price-linked common stock dividend, pursuant to the policy described above, of $0.01 per share based on the average realized silver price of $31.61 per ounce in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition, in February 2012, our Board of Directors adopted a common stock dividend policy that includes a minimum annual dividend of $0.01 per share of common stock, payable quarterly when declared, and declared a dividend of $0.0025 per share pursuant to that policy. Therefore, the aggregate common stock dividend declared by ouir Board of Directors was $0.0125 per share, for a total of approximately $3.6 million expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2012. The declaration and payment of common stock dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare and pay common stock dividends in the future. 17 Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could reduce our earnings per share. We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes, including funding our obligations under any settlement of litigation of other claims. Any such acquisition could be material to us and could significantly increase the size and scope of our business, including our market capitalization. To the extent we issue any additional equity securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted and our earnings per share could be reduced. As of December 31, 2011, there were warrants outstanding for purchase of 22,332,623 shares of our common stock. The warrants give the holders the right to purchase our common stock at the following prices: $2.44 (5,200,519 shares), $2.55 (460,976 shares), and $2.49 (16,671,128 shares). The remaining warrants expire in June and August 2014. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The issuance of additional shares of our preferred stock or common stock in the future could adversely affect holders of common stock. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by any preferred stock we may issue. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. This includes the power to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. As noted above, as of December 31, 2011, there were warrants outstanding to purchase a total of 22,332,623 shares of our common stock. As described in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we issued 18.9 million shares of our common stock in January of 2011 in connection with conversion of our 6.5% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. If a large number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock or other equity will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, shares of our common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. We may issue substantial additional shares of common stock or other securities in connection with material acquisition transactions or for other purposes, including funding of our obligations under any settlement of litigation or other claims. The market price of our common stock could decline if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could also impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law could delay or deter tender offers or takeover attempts that may offer a premium for our common stock. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that transaction would be beneficial to stockholders. These impediments include: • the classification of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, which makes it more difficult to quickly replace board members; • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights as it deems appropriate without stockholder approval; 18 • a provision that special meetings of our board of directors may be called only by our chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors; • a provision that special meetings of stockholders may only be called pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of our entire board of directors; • a prohibition against action by written consent of our stockholders; • a provision that our board members may only be removed for cause and by an affirmative vote of at least 80% of the outstanding voting stock; • a provision that our stockholders comply with advance-notice provisions to bring director nominations or other matters before meetings of our stockholders; • a prohibition against certain business combinations with an acquirer of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after such acquisition unless the stock acquisition or the business combination is approved by our board prior to the acquisition of the 15% interest, or after such acquisition our board and the holders of two-thirds of the other common stock approve the business combination; and • a prohibition against our entering into certain business combinations with interested stockholders without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock. The existence of these provisions may deprive stockholders of an opportunity to sell our stock at a premium over prevailing prices. The potential inability of our stockholders to obtain a control premium could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. If we cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. In the future, if we are not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, which require, among other things, that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days, our common stock may be delisted. Our closing stock price on February 20, 2012, was $5.02. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage for the Company; and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, delisting from the NYSE might negatively impact our reputation and, as a consequence, our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 