Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company cautions investors that its performance (and, therefore, any forward looking statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors, including but not limited to, the following may cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statement. a) The Company faces competition The Company encounters substantial competition from other companies positioned to serve the same market sectors that the Company serves. Some competitors may have financial, technical, capacity, marketing or other resources more extensive than ours, or may be able to respond more quickly than the Company can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. Some competitors have manufacturing operations in low–cost labor regions such as the far–east and eastern–Europe and can offer products at lower price than the Company. The Company may not be successful in winning orders against the Company’s present or future competitors, and competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. b) The Company has exposure to Government Markets Sales to customers in the defense industry have increased. These customers in turn generally contract with a governmental entity, typically the U.S. government. Most governmental programs are subject to funding approval and can be modified or terminated with no warning upon the determination of a legislative or administrative body. The loss or failure to obtain certain contracts or a loss of a major government customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. c) The Company’s revenues are concentrated in its largest customer accounts For the year ended December 31, 2007, seven customer accounts represented in the aggregate 68% of total revenues, and three customers represented 42% of revenues. These three customers each represented 19%, 14% and 9.0% of sales, respectively. Since we are a supplier of custom manufactured components to OEM customers, the relative size and identity of our largest customer accounts changes somewhat from year to year. In the short term, the loss of any of these large customer accounts could have a material adverse effect on business, our results of operations, and our financial condition. d) The Company’s business success depends on its ability to recruit and retain key personnel The Company depends on the expertise, experience, and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers, production and management personnel, and on the Company’s ability to recruit additional personnel. There is competition for the services of these personnel, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for its success, despite the Company’s effort to do so. The loss of the services of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse affect on its business, on its results of operations, or on its financial condition. e) The Company may not succeed in expanding product lines and markets by acquiring other businesses The Company’s business strategy includes expanding its production capacities, product lines and market reach through both internal growth and acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company may not succeed in finding or completing acquisitions of such businesses, nor can the Company be assured that it will be able to raise the financial capital needed for such acquisitions. Acquisitions may result in substantial per share financial dilution of the Company’s Common Stock from the issuance of equity 8 securities. They may also result in the taking on of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets acquired, any of which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, acquired businesses may be experiencing operating losses. Any acquisition will involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company’s people, operations and products, uncertainties associated with operating in new markets and working with new customers, and the potential loss of the acquired company’s key employees. To date, the Company has had limited experience in acquiring and integrating new businesses, having made only two acquisitions, and none since 2004. f) The Company depends on, but may not succeed in, developing and acquiring new products and processes In order to meet the Company’s strategic objectives, the Company needs to continue to develop new processes, to improve existing processes, and to manufacture and market new products. As a result, the Company may continue to make investments in the future in process development and additions to its product portfolio. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to its existing products and processes in a way that achieves market acceptance or other pertinent targeted results. The Company also cannot be sure that it will be successful in acquiring complementary products or technologies or that it will have the human or financial resources to pursue or succeed in such activities. g) The Company may not be able to fully protect its intellectual property The Company currently holds one material patent applicable to an important product, but does not in general rely on patents to protect its products or manufacturing processes. The Company generally relies on a combination of trade secret and employee non–competition and nondisclosure agreements to protect its intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps the Company takes will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of the Company’s technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that, in the future, third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company. Asserting the Company’s rights or defending against third–party claims could involve substantial expense, thus materially and adversely affecting the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. h) The Company incurred a net loss for one of the past three years The Company had a net loss of $(11,000) in 2005. Although the Company has been profitable in the last two years, if the Company were to sustain major future losses, the Company may not be able to obtain the financing that it may require to supply the working capital needs of its existing operations, or to continue to implement its growth strategy. i) The Company’s stock price may fluctuate widely The Company’s stock is thinly traded. Many factors, including, but not limited to, future announcements concerning the Company, its competitors or customers, as well as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, seasonal or other variations in anticipated or actual results of operations, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or reports regarding the Company’s industries in the financial press or investment advisory publications, could cause the market price of the Company’s stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the Company’s stock price may fluctuate widely for reasons which may be unrelated to operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, military conflicts, or market or market–sector declines, may materially and adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In addition, any information concerning the Company, including projections of future operating results, appearing in investment advisory publications or on–line bulletin boards or otherwise emanating from a source other than the Company could in the future contribute to volatility in the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. j) As general economic conditions deteriorate, the Company’s financial results suffer Significant economic downturns or recessions in the United States or Europe could adversely affect the Company’s business, by causing a temporary or longer term decline in demand for the Company’s goods and services and thus its revenues. Additionally, the Company’s revenues and earnings may also be affected by general economic factors, such as excessive inflation, currency fluctuations and employment levels. k) Many of the Company’s customer’s industries are cyclical The Company’s business is significantly dependent on the demand its customers experience for their products. Many of their end users are in industries that historically have experienced a cyclical demand for their products. The industries include but are not limited to, the defense electro–optics industry and the manufacturers of process control capital equipment for the semiconductor tools industry. As a result, demand for the Company’s products are subject to cyclical fluctuations, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 9 l) The Company’s operations may be adversely affected if it fails to keep pace with industry developments The Company serves industries and market sectors which will be affected by future technological developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new developments could render the Company’s existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. The Company’s continued success will depend upon its ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost–effective basis new processes, manufacturing capabilities, and products that keep pace with developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. m) The Company’s manufacturing processes require products from limited sources of supply The Company utilizes many relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture its products. Examples include optical grade quartz, specialty optical glasses, scarce natural and manmade crystals, beryllium and its alloys, and high purity chemical compounds. Failure of the Company’s suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis, or to deliver contaminated or inferior quality materials, or to markedly increase their prices could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, despite its efforts to secure long term commitments from the Company’s suppliers. Adverse results might include reducing the Company’s ability to meet commitments to its customers, compromising the Company’s relationship with its customers, adversely affecting the Company’s ability to meet expanding demand for its products, or causing the Company’s financial results to deteriorate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 