Item 1A. Risk Factors, metals prices have historically been volatile. Silver demand arises from investment demand, particularly in exchange-traded funds, industrial demand, and consumer demand. Gold demand arises primarily from investment and consumer demand. Investment demand for silver and gold is influenced by various factors, including: the value of the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, changing U.S. budget deficits, widening availability of exchange-traded funds, interest rate levels, the health of credit markets, and inflationary expectations. Uncertainty concerning a global economic recovery, including recent uncertainty in China, could result in continued investment demand for precious metals. Industrial demand for silver is closely linked to world Gross Domestic Product growth and industrial fabrication levels, as it is difficult to substitute for silver in industrial fabrication. Consumer demand is driven significantly by demand for jewelry and similar retail products. We believe that long-term industrial and economic trends, including urbanization and growth of the middle class in countries such as China and India, will result in continued consumer demand for silver and gold and industrial demand for silver. However, China has recently experienced a lower rate of economic growth which is ongoing and could continue in the near term. There can be no assurance whether these trends will continue or how they will impact prices of the metals we produce. In the past, we have recorded impairments to our asset carrying value because of low prices, and we can offer no assurance that prices will either remain at their current levels or increase. 77 Table Of Contents Processes supporting valuation of our assets and liabilities that are most significantly affected by prices include analysis of asset carrying values, depreciation, reserves, and deferred income taxes. On at least an annual basis - and more frequently if circumstances warrant - we examine our depreciation rates, reserve estimates, and the valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets. We examine the carrying values of our assets as changes in facts and circumstances warrant. In our evaluation of carrying values and deferred taxes, we apply several pricing views to our forecasting model, including current prices, analyst price estimates, forward-curve prices, and historical prices (see Mineral Reserves, below, regarding prices used for reserve estimates). Using applicable accounting guidance and our view of metals markets, we use the average of the various methods to determine whether the values of our assets are fairly stated, and to determine the level of valuation allowances, if any, on our deferred tax assets. In addition, estimates of future metals prices are used in the valuation of certain assets in the determination of the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions (see Business Combinations below). Sales of concentrates sold directly to customers are recorded as revenues when title and risk of loss transfer to the customer (generally at the time of shipment) at estimated forward metals prices for the estimated month of settlement. Due to the time elapsed between the shipment of concentrates to the customer and final settlement with the customer, we must estimate the prices at which sales of our metals will be settled. Previously recorded sales and trade accounts receivable are adjusted to estimated settlement metals prices until final settlement by the customer. Changes in metals prices between shipment and final settlement result in changes to revenues and accounts receivable previously recorded upon shipment. As a result, our trade accounts receivable balances related to concentrate sales are subject to changes in metals prices until final settlement occurs. For more information, see part N. Revenue Recognition of Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We utilize financially-settled forward contracts to manage our exposure to changes in prices for silver, gold, zinc and lead. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Commodity-Price Risk Management below for more information on our contract programs. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting and are therefore marked-to-market through earnings each period. Changes in silver, gold, zinc and lead prices between the dates that the contracts are entered into and their settlements will result in changes to the fair value asset or liability associated with the contracts, with a corresponding gain or loss recognized in earnings. Obligations for Environmental, Reclamation and Closure Matters Accrued reclamation and closure costs can represent a significant and variable liability estimate on our balance sheet. We have estimated our liabilities under appropriate accounting guidance, and on at least an annual basis - and more frequently if warranted - management reviews our liabilities with our audit committee. However, the ranges of liability could exceed the liabilities recognized. If substantial damages were awarded, claims were settled, or remediation costs incurred in excess of our accruals, our financial results or condition could be materially adversely affected. Mineral Reserves Critical estimates are inherent in the process of determining our reserves. Our reserves are affected largely by our assessment of future metals prices, as well as by engineering and geological estimates of ore grade, accessibility and production cost. Metals prices are estimated at long-term averages, as described in 