Item 1A. Risk Factors a) Many of the Company’s customer’s industries are cyclical The Company’s business is significantly dependent on the demand its customers experience for their products. Many of their end users are in industries that historically have experienced a cyclical demand for their products, The industries include but are not limited to, the defense electro-optics industry and the manufacturers of process control capital equipment for the semiconductor tools industry, As a result, demand for the Company’s products and its financial results of operations are subject to cyclical fluctuations. b) The Company faces competition The Company encounters substantial competition from other companies positioned to serve the same market sectors that the Company serves. Some competitors may have financial, technical, capacity, marketing or other resources more extensive than ours, or may be able to respond more quickly than the Company can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. Some competitors have manufacturing operations in low-cost labor regions such as the far-east and eastern-Europe and can offer products at lower price than the Company. The Company may not be successful in winning orders against the Company’s present or future competitors. c) As general economic conditions deteriorate, the Company’s financial results suffer Significant economic downturns or recessions in the United States or Europe could adversely affect the Company’s business, by causing a temporary or longer term decline in demand for the Company’s goods and services. Additionally, the Company’s revenues and earnings may be affected by general economic factors, such as excessive inflation, currency fluctuations and employment levels. d) The Company’s business success depends on its ability to recruit and retain key personnel The Company’s existing business and its expansion plans depend on the expertise, experience, 8 and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers, production and management personnel, and on the Company’s ability to recruit additional personnel. There is competition for the services of these personnel, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for its success, despite the Company’s effort to do so. The loss of the services of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse affect on its business, on its results of operations, or on its financial results. e) The Company has incurred operating losses for two of the past three years and net losses for each of the past three years The Company had income from operations of $358,000 in 2005 but had sustained operating losses of $(410,000) in 2004, and $(1,654,000) in 2003. Net losses for the 3 years were $(11,000) in 2005, $(673,000) in 2004 and $(1,777,000) in 2003. The Company has been following a strategy of growing via acquisition into a portfolio of Photonics businesses, and in this period had required capital both to fund working capital needs and to acquire businesses. The Company borrowed $1,000,000 via a subordinated convertible note to a major investor in December 2002 providing working capital during this period, and borrowed $2,500,000 million via a subordinated convertible note to finance acquisitions. Additionally, the Company has long-term debt in the form of a secured promissory note in the amount of $1,700,000 as well to a major investor, and the Company raised over $1,170,000 via a private placement of stock in 2004. The Company cannot establish lending lines from banking institutions at this time due to its prior net losses, absent a longer recent history of profitable fiscal quarters. In December 2005, the Company initiated a financing arrangement with a major shareholder and debt holder in the amount of $700,000 to fund acquisition of capital assets needed to absorb growth opportunities. The funds were received in February 2006. If the Company continues to sustain losses, the Company would be put at risk, since there are no assurances that the Company would be able to obtain additional financing it would require to continue to implement growth-by-acquisition or to supply the working capital needs of its existing operations. f) The Company may not succeed in acquiring complementary businesses or in integrating acquired businesses The Company’s business strategy includes expanding its production capacities, product lines and market reach through both internal growth and acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company may not succeed in finding or completing acquisitions of such businesses, nor can the Company be assured that it will be able to raise the financial capital needed for such acquisitions. Acquisitions may result in substantial per share financial dilution of the Company’s Common Stock from the issuance of equity securities. They may also result in the taking on of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets acquired, any of which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, acquired businesses may be experiencing operating losses. Any acquisition will involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company’s people, operations and products, uncertainties associated with operating in new markets and working with new customers, and the potential loss of the acquired company’s key employees. To date, the Company has had limited experience in acquiring or integrating businesses. g) The Company depends on, but may not succeed in, developing and acquiring new products and processes In order to meet the Company’s strategic objectives, the Company must continue to develop, manufacture and market new products, and to develop new processes and to improve existing processes. As a result, the Company expects to continue to make investments in research and development and to 9 continue to consider from time to time the strategic acquisition of businesses, products, or technologies complementary to the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to its existing products and processes in a way that achieves market acceptance or other pertinent targeted results. Nor can the Company be sure that it will be successful in acquiring complementary businesses, products, or technologies. Nor can there be assurance that the Company will have the human or financial resources to pursue or succeed in such activitites. h) The Company’s operations may be adversely affected if it fails to keep pace with industry developments The Company serves industries and market sectors which will be affected by future technological developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new developments could render the Company’s existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. The Company’s continued success will depend upon its ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, processes, and manufacturing capabilities that keep pace with developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. i) The Company’s manufacturing processes require products from limited sources of supply The Company utilizes many relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture its products. Examples include optical grade quartz, specialty optical glasses, scarce natural and manmade crystals, and high purity chemical compounds. Failure of the Company’s suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis, or to deliver contaminated or inferior quality materials, or to markedly increase their prices could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, despite its efforts to secure long term commitments from the Company’s suppliers. Adverse results might include reducing the Company’s ability to meet commitments to its customers, compromising the Company’s relationship with its customers, adversely affecting the Company’s ability to meet expanding demand for its products, or causing the Company’s financial results to deteriorate. j) Product yield problems and product defects that are not detected until products are in service could increase the Company’s costs and/or reduce its revenues Changes in the Company’s own or in its suppliers’ manufacturing processes, or the use of defective or contaminated materials by the Company, could result in an adverse effect on its ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, delivery performance, and product reliability. To the extent that the Company does not achieve such yields, delivery performance or product reliability, its business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships could be adversely affected. Additionally, the Company’s customers may discover defects in the Company’s products after the products have been put into service in their systems. In addition, some of the Company’s products are combined by the Company’s customers with products from other vendors, which may contain defects, making it difficult and costly to ascertain whose product carries liability. Any of the foregoing developments could result in increased costs and warranty expenses, loss of customers, diversion of technical resources, legal action by the Company’s customers, or damage to the Company’s reputation. k) International sales account for a significant portion of revenues Sales to customers in countries other than the United States accounted for approximately 14%, 12% and 19% of revenues during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The Company anticipates that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenues for the foreseeable future. In particular, although the Company’s international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, currency exchange fluctuations in countries where the Company does business could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations, by making the Company less price-competitive than foreign manufacturers. 10 l) The Company may not be able to fully protect its intellectual property The Company does not currently hold any material patents applicable to its most important products or manufacturing processes. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret and employee non-competition and nondisclosure agreements to protect its intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps the Company takes will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of the Company’s technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that, in the future, third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company. Asserting the Company’s rights or defending against third-party claims could involve substantial expense, thus materially and adversely affecting the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. m) The Company’s stock price may fluctuate widely Many factors, including, but not limited to, future announcements concerning the Company, its competitors or customers, as well as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, seasonal or other variations in anticipated or actual results of operations, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or reports regarding the Company’s industries in the financial press or investment advisory publications, could cause the market price of the Company’s stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the Company’s stock price may fluctuate widely for reasons which may be unrelated to operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, military conflicts, or market or market-sector declines, may materially and adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In addition, any information concerning the Company, including projections of future operating results, appearing in investment advisory publications or on-line bulletin boards or otherwise emanating from a source other than the Company could in the future contribute to volatility in the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved Staff comments as of March 15, 2006. Item 