ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, all of which has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We believe many of our customers, suppliers and distributors have also been affected by the current economic turmoil. Current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which has and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our gross margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations, difficulties if we overstrained our resources, and our long-term business approach that necessitates we remain in position to respond when market conditions improve. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. The foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. We depend upon our BioZ product line, which is in its early stages of market acceptance. Our future is dependent upon the success of the BioZ product line and similar products that are based on the same core technology. The market for these products is in a relatively early stage of development, less than 6% penetrated, and may never fully develop as we expect. The long-term commercial success of the BioZ product line requires widespread acceptance of our products as safe, efficient and cost-effective. Widespread acceptance would represent a significant change in medical practice patterns. Some medical professionals hesitate to use ICG products because of limitations experienced with older, analog-based monitors. Invasive procedures, such as PAC, are generally accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. We have sponsored and intend to continue to sponsor or support clinical trials. We cannot be certain that clinical trials will be completed, that they will have a positive outcome or that a positive outcome in these trials will be sufficient to promote widespread acceptance of our products within the medical community. Our success depends in part upon the availability of adequate third-party reimbursement. Our success will depend in part on the availability of adequate reimbursement for our customers from third-party healthcare payers, such as Medicare, private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payers continue to challenge the pricing of medical products and services. Reimbursement may not be at, or remain at, price levels adequate to allow medical professionals to realize an appropriate 17 Table of Contents return on the purchase of our products. In addition, third-party payers may not cover all or a portion of the cost of our products and related services, or they may place significant restrictions on the circumstances in which coverage will be available. For example, in January 2004, CMS issued an updated national coverage determination which served to restrict the number of hypertensive patients eligible for Medicare reimbursement for ICG monitoring. While CMS could rescind coverage if they deemed the test or therapy to be harmful, we are not aware of any instance when CMS has rescinded coverage for a test or therapy that they previously evaluated and chose to cover. On occasion, we offer Customers a limited Medicare reimbursement guarantee under which we would be responsible for the remaining unbilled payments in the unlikely event that Medicare rescinds coverage. A low stock price could result in our being de-listed from the Nasdaq Market and subject us to regulations that could reduce our ability to raise funds. Our stock has traded below the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) since October 14, 2008. Because of the volatility in the financial markets, Nasdaq temporarily suspended the continued listing requirements related to bid price and market value during the period of October 16, 2008 to April 19, 2009. If our stock price remains below $1.00 per share after the temporary suspension expires, and the suspension is not extended, or if we fail to maintain other Nasdaq listing criteria, our stock could be de-listed. If our stock is delisted from Nasdaq, our shares could only be traded on over-the-counter bulletin board system. This method of trading could significantly impair our ability to raise new capital. In the event that our common stock was de-listed from the Nasdaq Market due to low stock price, we may become subject to special rules, called “penny stock” rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. The rules require, among other things, the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule required by the SEC relating to the market for penny stocks. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable both to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities, and monthly statements must be provided disclosing recent price information. In the event that our common stock becomes characterized as a penny stock, our market liquidity could be severely affected. The regulations relating to penny stocks could limit the incentive for broker-dealers to sell our common stock and thus the ability of purchasers to sell their common stock in the secondary market. Capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital. The general disruption in the U.S. capital markets has impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. These conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions. 18 Table of Contents To service or retire our debt when and as due, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our operating performance. This, in part, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or indebtedness or refinance or restructure our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial cash flow problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We cannot assure you as to the timing of such sales or the proceeds that we could realize from such sales or if additional debt or equity financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our quarterly operating results frequently vary due to factors outside our control. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to a number of factors. We cannot control many of these factors, which include the following: • the timing and number of new product introductions; • the number of selling days in a given quarter; • turnover in our sales force; • tightening of third party customer financing credit; • the mix of sales of higher and lower margin products in a quarter; • the market acceptance of, and changes in demand for our products; • the impact of any changes in generally accepted accounting principles; • the loss of, or ordering delays by any of our strategic partners; • variations in inventory overhead rates or inventory reserves; • the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, and other significant corporate events; • development and promotional expenses relating to the introduction of new products or enhancements of existing products; • product returns or bad debt write-offs; • changes in pricing policies by our competitors; • the timing of regulatory compliance audits; • the impact of weather related disasters such as ice storms and hurricanes; • delays in shipment of products or components to us by our vendors; and • The timing of customer orders and shipments. Our quarterly sales have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of our total quarterly sales occur toward the end of each of our fiscal quarters. This uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings and working capital for each financial period difficult and increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Accordingly, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results as indications of future results. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” requires that we test goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for impairment on an annual, or on an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value. In addition, under SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, long-lived assets with finite lives are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant decrease in the fair value of a long-lived asset, an adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition or an expectation that a long-lived asset will be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated life are among several of the factors that could result in an impairment charge. We evaluate intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sales or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors such as a decline in our market value below our book value for an extended period of time. We evaluate the estimated lives of all intangible assets on an annual basis, to determine if events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life or the remaining useful life, as applicable, or if a revision in the remaining period of amortization is required. The amount of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. We may need additional capital, which may be unavailable. The commercialization of our current product line, acquisition of complimentary technologies and the development and commercialization of any additional products may require greater expenditures than expected in our current business plan. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • our rate of sales growth—fast growth may actually increase our need for additional capital to hire additional staff, purchase additional inventory, and finance the increase in accounts receivable; • our progress in marketing-related clinical evaluations and product development programs, all of which will require additional capital; • our receipt of, and the time required to obtain, regulatory clearances and approvals—the longer regulatory approval takes, the more working capital we will need to support our regulatory and development efforts in advance of sales; • the level of resources that we devote to the development, manufacture and marketing of our products—any decision we make to improve, expand, acquire complimentary technologies or simply change our process, products or technology may require increased funds; • facilities requirements—as we grow we need additional manufacturing, warehousing and administration facilities and the costs of the facilities will be borne before substantially increased revenue from growth would occur; 20 Table of Contents • market acceptance and demand for our products—although growth may increase our capital needs, the lack of growth and continued losses would also increase our need for capital; and • customer financing strategies—our attempt to accelerate the purchasing processes by offering internal financing programs and by providing purchasers with extended payment terms would consume additional capital. We may be unable to predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We may be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing, bank loans, collaborative relationships or other arrangements earlier than expected. It is possible that banks, venture capitalists and other investors may perceive our capital structure, our history of losses or the need to achieve widespread acceptance of our technology as too great a risk to bear, particularly if the capital markets for this profile of financing continues to contract as it has recently. As a result, additional funding may not be available at attractive terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain additional capital when needed, we may be forced to agree to unattractive financing terms, to change our method of operation or to curtail our operations. Technological change is difficult to predict and new product transitions are difficult to manage. Our product line has required, and any future products will require, substantial development efforts and compliance with governmental clearance or approval requirements. We may encounter unforeseen technological or scientific problems that force abandonment or substantial change in the development of a specific product or process. In addition, as we introduce new products and product enhancements, we may not be able to effectively segregate or transition from existing products which could negatively impact revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in cost, delays in customer purchases in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new and existing offerings and effectively managing inventory levels and the risks that new products may have quality or other defects. Furthermore, sales of our new products may replace sales, or result in discounting of our current offerings. We depend on management and other key personnel. We are dependent on a limited number of key management, sales and technical personnel. The loss of one or more of our key employees may hurt our business if we are unable to identify other individuals to provide us with similar services. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. We face intense competition in our recruiting activities and may not be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. We have historically used stock options or shares of restricted stock as key components of our total employee compensation program. In recent periods, many of our employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain and attract present and prospective employees. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”), has required us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives which has changed our compensation strategy. Our ability to retain our existing personnel and attract additional highly qualified personnel may impact our future success. We must maintain and develop strategic relationships with third parties to increase market penetration of our product lines. We distribute our ICG products to targeted international markets through a network of regional distributors, our strategic alliance with GE Healthcare and Mindray and to the US market through our direct sales force. We may enter into similar agreements with other companies and establish technology partnerships with other medical product, distribution and technology companies. Successfully managing 21 Table of Contents the interaction of our direct sales force and strategic distribution partners is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks, gross margins and operation costs, our failure to implement and maintain the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and profitability. Widespread acceptance of our BioZ products may be dependent on our establishing and maintaining these strategic relationships with third parties and on the successful distribution efforts of third parties. Many aspects of our relationships with third parties, and the success with which third parties promote distribution of our products, are beyond our control. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining our existing strategic relationships and in identifying and entering into future development and distribution agreements with third parties. If market conditions cause us to reduce the selling price of our products or sensors, our margins and operating results will decrease. The selling price of our products and sensors are subject to market conditions. Market conditions that could impact these aspects of our operations include: • changes in the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; • hospital or physician practice budgetary constraints; • the introduction of competing products; • price reductions by our competitors; • tightening of credit for physicians desiring to finance their purchase of our equipment; • development of more effective products by our competitors; and • lengthening of buying or selling cycles. If such conditions force us to sell our products and systems at lower prices, or if we are unable to effectively develop and market competitive products, our market share, margins and operating results will likely decrease. We are subject to stock exchange and government regulation. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and SEC and stock exchange regulations have increased financial reporting and disclosure requirements, corporate governance and internal control requirements, and have significantly increased the administrative costs of documenting and auditing internal processes, gathering data, and reporting information. The need to commit substantial resources and management attention in these areas impacts our ability to deploy those same resources to other areas of our business. If the regulations substantially increase or we are unable to comply with the requirements, it could significantly impact our market valuation. We may not have adequate intellectual property protection. Our patents and proprietary technology may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, if our actions to enforce our patents are found to be a violation of laws related to unlawful tying or restraint of trade, we may be required to pay damages to third parties, which could be costly and could harm our business. The validity and breadth of claims in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that future patent applications will be issued, that patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that such patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with a competitive advantage. Our patents may be found to be invalid and other companies may claim rights in or ownership of the patents and 22 Table of Contents other proprietary rights held or licensed by us. Also, our existing patents may not cover products that we develop in the future. Moreover, when our patents expire, the inventions will enter the public domain. We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. We face competition from other companies and technologies. We compete with other companies that are developing and marketing noninvasive hemodynamic monitors. We are also subject to competition from companies that support invasive technologies. Many of these companies have more established and larger marketing and sales organizations, significantly greater financial and technical resources and a larger installed base of customers than we do. The introduction by others of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, other technologies or products may be developed that have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the intended purposes of our products. Accordingly, the life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate. To compete successfully, we must develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological advancements, respond to evolving consumer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We may be unable to develop new products that address our competition. Our business plan contemplates an income stream from sales of disposable sensors that are compatible with an installed base of our monitors. We may be subject to price competition from other sensor manufacturers whose products are also compatible with our monitors. In addition, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with large medical equipment companies to gain access to greater research and development or marketing resources. Competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We may not receive approvals by foreign regulators that are necessary for international sales. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. If we, or our international distributors, fail to obtain or maintain required pre-market approvals or fail to comply with foreign regulations, foreign regulatory authorities may require us to file revised governmental notifications, cease commercial sales of our products in the applicable countries or otherwise cure the problem. Such enforcement action by regulatory authorities may be costly. In order to sell our products within the European community, we must comply with the European community’s medical device directive. The CE marking on our products attests to this compliance. Future regulatory changes may limit our ability to use the CE mark, and any new products we develop may not qualify for the CE mark. If we lose this authorization or fail to obtain authorization on future products, we will not be able to sell our products in the European community. Our international sales expose us to unique risks. In fiscal 2008, international sales accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales. We believe that international sales could represent a meaningful portion of our revenue in the future. We rely on a network of regional distributors, our strategic alliance with GE Healthcare and Mindray to assist us with our international sales efforts. In June of 2004, we purchased 80% of the outstanding common stock of Medis, which is located in Ilmenau, Germany. As such, we are exposed to risks from international sales, which include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions 23 Table of Contents and reduced protection for intellectual property rights. Moreover, fluctuations in the rates of exchange may subject us to foreign currency losses related to the Medis deferred acquisition payments or increase the price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets and make our products relatively more expensive than competitive products. We may not be able to manage growth successfully. If successful, we will experience a period of growth that could place a significant strain upon our managerial, financial and operational resources. Our infrastructure, procedures, controls and information systems may not be adequate to support our operations and to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully market our products. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to continually upgrade our information systems, expand our direct sales force and our internal sales, marketing and support staff. If we are unable to manage future expansion effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer, our senior management will be less effective, and our revenues and product development results may decrease. Our limited order backlog makes it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which can lead to lower revenues, higher expenses and reduced margins. Our customers typically order products on a purchase order basis, and we do not generally have long-term purchase contracts. In limited circumstances, customer orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed on short notice. Lack of significant order backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales with certainty. Varying sales cycles with our customers make it difficult to accurately forecast component and product requirements. These factors expose us to a number of risks: • If we overestimate our requirements we may be obligated to purchase more components or third-party products than is required; • If we underestimate our requirements, our third-party manufacturers and suppliers may have an inadequate product or product component inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues; • We may also experience shortages of product components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products; and • Over or under production can lead to higher expense, lower than anticipated revenues, and reduced margins. We depend on third parties for development and manufacturing services. Our strategy for development and commercialization of some of our products depends upon entering into various arrangements with third parties and upon the subsequent success of these parties in performing their obligations. We may not be able to negotiate acceptable arrangements in the future, and our existing arrangements may not be successful. We rely on third parties to manufacture our ICG sensors and we currently assemble our products from components manufactured by a limited number of manufacturers. Therefore, we are dependent on these manufacturers. If we experience a termination, modification or disruption of any of our manufacturing arrangements, we may be unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation. 24 Table of Contents Our common stock is subject to price volatility. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or pricing by our competitors; • changes in, or failure to meet, financial estimates of securities analysts; • the rate of adoption by physicians of ICG technology in targeted markets; • the timing and extent of technological advancements, patent and regulatory approvals; • the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, and other significant corporate events; • anything other than unqualified reports by our outside auditors; • results of clinical studies; • changes in reimbursement policies of third-party payers; • the sales of our common stock by affiliates or other shareholders with large holdings; and • general economic and market conditions, including the recent instability in the financial markets and global economy. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations of securities industry analysts or investors. Any such shortfall could result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has at times experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of the stock of many medical device companies that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may directly influence the market price of our common stock. We have a history of losses and may experience continued losses. With the exception of 2002 through 2004, we have experienced losses every year because we have expended more money in the course of researching, developing and enhancing our technology and products and establishing and maintaining our sales, marketing and administrative organizations than we have generated in revenues. We expect that our operating expenses will continue at current levels and eventually increase in the foreseeable future as we increase our sales and marketing activities, expand our operations and continue to develop our technology. It is possible that we will not be able to achieve the revenue levels required to achieve and sustain profitability. We may not continue to receive necessary FDA or other regulatory clearances or approvals. Our products and activities are subject to extensive, ongoing regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and other governmental authorities. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals, or any failure to comply with regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent our ability to market or distribute our product line. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to make future acquisitions or successfully integrate any such acquisitions. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we intend to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our technical capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. Potential acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • unanticipated transaction cost associated with the acquisition, including accounting charges; • problems implementing and maintaining adequate procedures, controls and policies; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted, and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by incurring debt or issuing equity, our existing shareholders would be diluted or we would have to generate additional profits to cover the interest expense. We are subject to product liability claims and product recalls that may not be covered by insurance. The nature of our business exposes us to risks of product liability claims and product recalls. Medical devices as complex as ours frequently experience errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are sometimes used in procedures where there is a high risk of serious injury or death. These risks will exist even with respect to those products that have received, or may in the future receive, regulatory clearance for commercial sale. We currently maintain product liability insurance; however, our product liability insurance may not be adequate. In the future, insurance coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, product liability claims or product recalls could damage our reputation even if we have adequate insurance coverage. We do not know the effects of healthcare reform proposals. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes resulting from political, economic and regulatory influences. In the United States, comprehensive programs have been suggested that would increase access to healthcare for the uninsured, control the escalation of healthcare expenditures within the economy and use healthcare reimbursement policies to balance the federal budget. We expect that the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess various healthcare reform proposals, and public debate of these issues will likely continue. We cannot predict which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted and when they might be effective. Other countries also are considering healthcare reform. Significant changes in healthcare systems could have a substantial impact on the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to revise our strategies. 26 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 