risk factors described below, in Item 7A: “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risks and uncertainties could affect our actual results and could cause results to differ materially from past results or those contemplated by our forward-looking statements. When used herein, the words “expects”, “believes”, “anticipates” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may vary in the future due to a variety of factors, including adverse changes in the U.S. and global macroeconomic environment, volatility in overall demand for our customers’ products, success of customers’ programs, timing of new programs, new product introductions or technological advances by us, our customers and our competitors, and changes in pricing policies by us, our customers, our suppliers, and our competitors. Our customer base is diverse in the markets they serve, however, decreases in demand, particularly from customers that supply the banking, consumer products, and gambling industries, could affect future quarterly results. Additionally, our customers could be impacted by the illiquidity of the credit markets which could directly impact our operating results. Component procurement, production schedules, personnel and other resource requirements are based on estimates of customer requirements. Occasionally, our customers may request accelerated production that can stress resources and reduce operating margins. In addition, because many of our operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross profit and operating results. The products which we manufacture for our customers have relatively short product lifecycles. Therefore, our business, operating results and financial condition are dependent in significant way on our ability to obtain orders from new customers and new product programs from existing customers. Operating results can also fluctuate if changes are made to significant estimates and assumptions. Significant estimates and assumptions include the allowance for doubtful receivables, provision for obsolete and non-saleable inventory, the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, impairment of long-lived assets, long-term incentive compensation accrual, and the provision for warranty costs. Economic Conditions Recently there have been adverse conditions and uncertainty in the global economy as the result of unstable global financial and credit markets, inflation, and recession. These unfavorable economic conditions and the weakness of the credit market could affect the demand for our customers’ products. The current global macroeconomic environment may affect some of our customers that could reduce orders and change forecasts which could adversely affect our sales in future periods. Additionally, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers and their ability to obtain and rely on credit financing may affect their ability to fulfill their obligations to us and have an adverse affect on our financial results. 9 Table of Contents Credit Markets The current illiquidity and financial instability in the credit markets could adversely impact lenders and potentially limit the ability of our suppliers and customers to borrow. This may affect their ability to fulfill their obligations to us and have an adverse effect on our financial results. Dependence on Suppliers We are dependent on many suppliers, including sole source suppliers, to provide key components and raw materials used in manufacturing customers’ products. Over the past few quarters we have seen supply shortages in certain electronic components. This has resulted in longer lead times and the inability to meet our customers request for flexible production and we have missed or extended shipment dates. If demand for these components continues to outpace supply capacity these delays could further affect future operations. Delays in deliveries from suppliers or the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and raw materials could cause delays or reductions in shipment of products to our customers which could adversely affect our operating results and damage customer relationships. Concentration of Credit Risk Cash and cash equivalents are exposed to concentrations of credit risk. We place our cash with high credit quality institutions. At times, such balances may be in excess of the federal depository insurance limit or may be on deposit at institutions which are not covered by insurance. If such institutions were to become insolvent during which time it held our cash and cash equivalents in excess of the insurance limit, it could be necessary to obtain other credit financing to operate our facilities. Competition The EMS industry is intensely competitive. Competitors may offer customers lower prices on certain high volume programs. This could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, all of which would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we were unable to provide comparable or better manufacturing services at a lower cost than our competitors, it could cause sales to decline. In addition, competitors can copy our non-proprietary designs after we have invested in development of products for customers, thereby enabling such competitors to offer lower prices on such products due to savings in development costs. Concentration of Major Customers At present, our customer base is highly concentrated and could become more or less concentrated. Our largest EMS customer accounted for 18% of net sales in fiscal year 2010. This same customer accounted for 6% of sales in 2009 and 0% in 2008. For the fiscal years ended 2010, 2009, and 2008, the five largest customers accounted for 57%, 52%, and 68% of total sales, respectively. There can be no assurance that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at current levels. Moreover, we typically do not enter into long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers, and our customers have certain rights to extend or delay the shipment of their orders. We, however, require that our customers contractually agree to buy back inventory purchased within specified lead times to build their products if not used. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from such customers, due to economic conditions or other forces, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Specifically, some of our major customers provide products to the banking and gambling industries which have been adversely affected by the unfavorable economic environment. The contraction in demand from our customers in these industries could continue to impact our customer orders and continue to have a negative impact on our operations over the next several fiscal quarters. Additionally, if one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for the manufacturing services provided by us, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Foreign Manufacturing Operations Most of the products manufactured by us are produced at our facilities located in Mexico and China. These international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including: 10 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability (including acts of terrorism, civil unrest, forms of violence and outbreaks of war), which could impact our ability to ship and/or receive product; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws; • longer customer payment cycles and difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • export duties, import controls and trade barriers (including quotas); • governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could affect component costs, local payroll, utility and other expenses; and • inability to utilize net operating losses incurred by our foreign operations to reduce our U.S. income taxes; • our foreign locations may be impacted by hurricanes, earthquakes, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters. Our operations in certain foreign locations receive favorable income tax treatment in the form of tax credits or other incentives. In the event that such tax holidays or other incentives are not extended, are repealed, or we no longer qualify for such programs, our taxes may increase, which would reduce our net income. Additionally, certain foreign jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the U.S or impose taxes and penalties on such transfers of cash. To the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our operations in the United States, we may incur significant penalties and/or taxes to repatriate these funds. Dependence on Key Personnel Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing and management personnel and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Technological Change and New Product Risk The markets for our customers’ products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles. The introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our success will depend upon our customers’ ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address evolving and increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. Failure of our customers to do so could substantially harm our customers’ competitive positions. There can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in identifying, developing and marketing products that respond to technological change, emerging industry standards or evolving customer requirements. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk under our revolving credit facility with interest rates based on various levels of margin added to published prime rate and LIBOR rates depending on the calculation of a certain financial covenant. Compliance with Current and Future Environmental Regulation We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, and disposal of materials used in our manufacturing processes. If we fail to comply with any present or future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of current manufacturing operations. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our operations or could require us to acquire costly equipment, substitute materials, or incur other significant expenses to comply with government regulations. 11 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Fluctuations A significant portion of our operations are in foreign locations. As a result, transactions occur in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations among other currencies used by us could directly or indirectly affect our financial results. Future currency fluctuations are dependent upon a number of factors and cannot be easily predicted. We currently use Mexican peso forward contracts to hedge foreign currency fluctuations for a portion of our Mexican peso denominated expenses. However, unexpected expenses could occur from future fluctuations in exchange rates. Dilution and Stock Price Volatility Holders of the common stock will suffer immediate dilution to the extent outstanding options to purchase the common stock are exercised. Our stock price may be subject to wide fluctuations and possible rapid increases or declines over a short time period. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us such as variations in quarterly operating results or changes in earnings estimates, or to factors relating to the EMS industry or to the securities markets in general, which, in recent years, have experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stocks are traded. Disclosure and Internal Controls Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all errors or fraud. A control system is designed to give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, any control system reflects resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Inherent limitations of a control system may include: judgments in decision making may be faulty, breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake and controls can be circumvented by collusion or management override. Due to the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 