Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to, the risk factors described below, in Item 7A: “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risks and uncertainties could affect our actual results and could cause results to differ materially from past results or those contemplated by our forward-looking statements. When used herein, the words “expects”, “believes”, “anticipates” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may vary in the future due to a variety of factors, including changes in overall demand for customers’ products, success of customers’ programs, timing of new programs, new product introductions or technological advances by us, our customers and our competitors and changes in pricing policies by us, our customers, our suppliers and our competitors. 6 Table of Contents Component procurement, production schedules, personnel and other resource requirements are based on estimates of customer requirements. Occasionally, our customers may request accelerated production that can stress resources and reduce operating margins. In addition, because many of our operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross profit and operating results. The products which we manufacture for our customers have relatively short product lifecycles, therefore our business, operating results and financial condition are dependent in significant part on our ability to obtain orders from new customers and new product programs from existing customers. Operating results can also fluctuate if changes are made to significant estimates and assumptions. Significant estimates and assumptions include the allowance for doubtful receivables, provision for obsolete and non-saleable inventory, the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, valuation of goodwill, impairment of long-lived assets, long-term incentive compensation accrual, and the provision for warranty costs. Competition The EMS industry is intensely competitive. Competitors may offer customers lower prices on certain high volume programs. This could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, all of which would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we were unable to provide comparable or better manufacturing services at a lower cost than our competitors, it could cause sales to decline. In addition, competitors can copy our non-proprietary designs after we have invested in development of products for customers, thereby enabling such competitors to offer lower prices on such products due to savings in development costs. Concentration of Major Customers At present, our customer base is highly concentrated and could become more or less concentrated. Our largest EMS customer accounted for 18% of net sales in fiscal year 2008. This same customer accounted for 17% of sales in 2007 and 18% in 2006. For the fiscal years ended 2008, 2007, and 2006, the five largest customers accounted for 68%, 73% and 71% of total sales, respectively. There can be no assurance that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at current levels. Moreover, we typically do not enter into long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers, and our customers have certain rights to extend or delay the shipment of their orders. We, however, require that our customers contractually agree to buy back inventory purchased within specified lead times to build their products if not used. The loss of one or more of our major customers, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from such customers, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Dependence on Suppliers We are dependent on many suppliers, including sole source suppliers, to provide key components and raw materials used in manufacturing customers’ products. Delays in deliveries from suppliers or the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and raw materials could cause delays or reductions in shipment of products to our customers which could adversely affect our operating results and damage customer relationships. Dependence on Key Personnel Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing and management personnel and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. The competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Foreign Manufacturing Operations Most of the products manufactured by us are produced at our facilities located in Mexico and China. Accordingly, our operations are subject to a variety of risks unique to international operations including import and export duties and value added taxes, import and export regulation changes, the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws and foreign economic and political risk. Technological Change and New Product Risk The markets for our customers’ products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles. The introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our success will depend upon our customers’ ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address evolving and increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. Failure of our customers to do so could substantially harm our customers’ competitive positions. There can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in identifying, developing and marketing products that respond to technological change, emerging industry standards or evolving customer requirements. Compliance with Current and Future Environmental Regulation We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, and disposal of materials used in our manufacturing processes. If we fail to comply with 7 Table of Contents any present or future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of current manufactured products. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our operations or could require us to acquire costly equipment, substitute materials, or incur other significant expenses to comply with government regulations. Foreign Currency Fluctuations A significant portion of our operations and customers are in foreign locations. As a result, transactions may occur in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations among other currencies used by us could directly or indirectly affect our financial results. Future currency fluctuations are dependent upon a number of factors and cannot be easily predicted. We have used Mexican peso forward contracts to hedge foreign currency fluctuation for a portion of weekly payroll costs. However, unexpected expenses could occur from future fluctuations in exchange rates. Dilution and Stock Price Volatility As of June 28, 2008, there were outstanding options for the purchase of 1,268,375 shares of our common stock (Common Stock), all of which were vested and exercisable. Holders of the Common Stock will suffer immediate and substantial dilution to the extent outstanding options to purchase the Common Stock are exercised. Our stock price may be subject to wide fluctuations and possible rapid increases or declines over a short time period. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us such as variations in quarterly operating results or changes in analysts’ earnings estimates, or to factors relating to the EMS or to the securities markets in general, which, in recent years, have experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stocks are traded. Disclosure and Internal Controls Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures will prevent all errors or fraud. A control system is designed to give reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, any control system reflects resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Inherent limitations of a control system may include: judgments in decision making may be faulty, breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake and that controls can be circumvented by collusion or management override. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. 8 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 