ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by any forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or that we make in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or in other public statements. You should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, sell or hold our securities. Risks Relating to Our Company and Industry The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative in nature and is frequently unproductive. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration, and development activities will be commercially successful. Other than our interest in CC&V, we do not have any properties with current or planned gold production. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of mineable deposits of ore. Moreover, any mineralization discovery may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be mined profitably. We use the evaluation work of professional geologists, geophysicists, and engineers for estimates in determining whether to commence or continue mining. These estimates generally rely on scientific and economic assumptions, which may not be correct. As a result of these uncertainties, we may expend substantial amounts of funds on exploration or mining projects that may ultimately result in failure to locate gold minerals sufficient to justify commercial mining operations. Due to the nature of mining activities, we face risks of delays and increased costs resulting from environmental, technical, and geological factors. Mining activities are subject to substantial operating hazards, including weather, environmental conditions, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations, equipment breakdowns or malfunctions and work interruptions. There may also be limited availability of water, which is essential to milling operations. The occurrence of any of these events could delay or interrupt production, increase production costs, or result in liability for us. Our results of operation could therefore be adversely affected as well. We face strong competition in our industry and may not be able to compete effectively. Our industry consists of numerous companies which compete in the acquisition and development of mining properties. Many of these companies are significantly larger than us or CC&V. They may also enjoy access to more capital resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to engage in more exploration activities, acquire rights to more properties with potential quantities of gold, and more easily obtain the funds necessary to conduct production activities. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies. 11 The mining and mineral processing industries are subject to extensive governmental regulations which can impose significant costs and burdens. Our mining activities, including those of CC&V, are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulations governing air and water quality, mine reclamation, solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal, and occupational safety. Although we are not aware of any circumstances which would cause CC&V or any of our other properties to be in violation of any of these regulations, there can be no assurance that we and CC&V will be able to be in compliance with such regulations in the future. Factors that may lead to our inability to comply with regulations include, for example, future changes in regulations, increased cost of compliance, and our financial condition in the future. Failure to comply with the regulations can result in injunctive action, damages, and civil and criminal penalties, all of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, CC&V had posted a bond of approximately $45 million with the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Board to secure reclamation of mining disturbances arising from the CC&V Joint Venture’s mining activities, and will likely be required to post additional sums to accommodate further mining at the Cresson site. Further, on November 27, 2000 and on November 30, 2001, the Sierra Club and Mineral Policy Center filed two lawsuits against CC&V, AngloGold (and one of its affiliates) and the Company (the Defendants), alleging various past and ongoing violations of the federal Clean Water Act at the Cresson Project near Victor, Colorado. (See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for additional information). We are subject to risks related to our Philippine activities. We have entered into an agreement with a Philippine mining company, Benquet Corporation. The operating agreement stipulates that our Philippine subsidiary, Golden Cycle Philippines, Inc., would manage the exploration, development and/or mining of certain designated properties in the Philippines. We have never before engaged in mining activities in the Philippines. Moreover, since our inception in 1972, we have never served as manager of any mining project in the United States or any foreign country. Consequently, we will, in connection with activities in the Philippines, be subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in any new business enterprise, such as the ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to raise sufficient capital. Further, we may also be subject to certain risks of doing business in foreign countries, such as political instability, unfamiliarity with local laws, and currency exchange risk. Currently all the activities of the Philippines subsidiary are on hold pending approval of a Mineral Production Sharing Agreement by the Philippine government. The Company wrote off the remaining value of its investment in the Philippine subsidiary during 2006. If opportunities to economically pursue activities in the Philippines are available, and if we elect to pursue them, additional capital may be required. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional capital, if required, or that such capital would be available to us on terms which would be acceptable. We are dependent on the efforts of key personnel and may be harmed if we are unable to retain these individuals. The success of our business depends, in large part, upon the skills and efforts of a small group of key personnel, including R. Herbert Hampton, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Treasurer. If we are not successful in retaining such key personnel, or attracting similarly qualified individuals, our business may be harmed. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our key personnel. Therefore, the loss of our key personnel could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We could be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This would impose significant restrictions on us and would be likely to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal assets include our equity interest and participation in the Joint Venture. Our interest in the Joint Venture could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. In the event that such interest is determined to have a value that comprises 40% or more of our total assets, we could be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless an exemption from registration were available or we were to obtain an order of the SEC excluding or exempting us from registration under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed an investment company, the Investment Company Act would impose significant restrictions on us, including severe limitations on our ability to borrow money, 12 to issue additional capital stock and to transact business with affiliates. In addition, because our operations are very different from those of the typical registered investment company, regulation under the Investment Company Act could affect us in other ways that are extremely difficult to predict. In sum, if we were deemed to be an investment company it could become impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Risks Relating to the Cripple Creek Joint Venture Because we rely on CC&V for substantially all of our revenues and cash flow, our business will be harmed if CC&V’s operation is negatively impacted. Our participation in CC&V constitutes our primary business. Gold production at CC&V accounted for all of our total gold production in fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Substantially all of our revenues and cash flow are derived from this gold production. Our results of operations, cash flow, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if production at the Cresson mine is disrupted due to labor interruptions, technical problems, or environmental factors, such as seismic events, or other unforeseeable events. In addition, AngloGold has the ability to reduce CC&V’s gold production, even without our consent. AngloGold, as the manager of the CC&V Joint Venture, develops, revises and implements budget and plans for the Joint Venture. As the 67% majority shareholder in the Joint Venture, AngloGold can adopt or change any plan or budget for the Joint Venture. We cannot assure you that AngloGold will not reduce CC&V’s planned gold production in the future which will materially and adversely affect our profitability. CC&V is substantially dependent on AngloGold for its operating funds and may not be able to continue operations if such funds are no longer available. The exploration and development of CC&V’s properties are governed by the terms of the Joint Venture agreement, which grants operational responsibility and management authority in the Joint Venture to AngloGold. If AngloGold, whose proportionate share of the Joint Venture’s costs is much larger than ours, is not in a position to furnish (or otherwise chooses not to furnish) any operating funds required by the Joint Venture, it is unlikely that the Joint Venture would continue in operation. Because CC&V constitutes our primary operating asset, such an event would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Should AngloGold withdraw from the CC&V Joint Venture, our primary source of annual operating revenues would cease and, unless we find a new Joint Venture partner, our ability to continue as a going concern would be severely impaired. It is uncertain that we would be able to find a new Joint Venture partner, or that terms satisfactory to us could be negotiated with the new partner. CC&V has had a history of losses prior to 2004. Because CC&V’s profitability depends on the price of gold, it may incur losses again in the future. During fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 the CC&V Joint Venture recorded net income of $38.4 million, $9.460 million, and $7.692 million respectively. However, in previous years, CC&V incurred substantial losses during each year of operation except 1996. There is no assurance that CC&V will be able to achieve profitability in any subsequent period or to sustain profitability for an extended period. The ability of CC&V to operate on a profitable basis depends, to a large degree, on the market price for gold. The market price of gold is volatile, subject to speculative movement and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international, economic and political conditions, levels of supply and demand, the inventory levels maintained by gold producers and others and, to a lesser degree, inventory carrying costs (primarily interest charges) and international exchange rates. Whether gold prices will maintain a level that will enable CC&V to operate profitability on a continuing basis cannot be assured. It is unlikely that we will receive net proceeds from CC&V in the foreseeable future. Based on the amount of the Initial Loans payable by CC&V to AngloGold ($333.8 million as of December 31, 2006) which must be repaid prior to the distribution of any net proceeds to us, and the amount of income which the Joint Venture can reasonably be expected to generate over the next several years, we believe that, absent a significant and sustained increase in the price of gold and an improvement in the efficiency of the operations of the Joint Venture, it is unlikely that we will receive more than the minimum annual distributions from CC&V for the foreseeable future based on the current terms of the Joint Venture agreement. Therefore, even if CC&V achieves profitability for a sustained period, it is unlikely that this would have any impact on our cash flow for the foreseeable future. 13 CC&V’s gold ore reserve figures are estimated based on a number of assumptions and may yield less gold under actual production conditions than the Joint Venture currently estimates. CC&V has prepared gold ore reserve estimates in accordance with industry practice and SEC Industry Guide Number 7. Ore reserve estimates are based on prepared mining plans; however actual reserves and/or production may vary from the estimates. Key assumptions used in the estimation may prove to be inaccurate (such as future gold prices, gold recovery rates, cut-off grades and operating costs). Reserve estimates require revision based on actual experience or new information. Experience may require changes or adjustments to the mining plans in a way which adversely impacts the ore reserve estimates. Future gold prices may decline, operating costs may increase, gold recoveries may decrease to a point which would make mining of lower grade mineralization uneconomical. Risks Relating to the Market Our stock price has been and could continue to be volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. The securities markets have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could negatively affect the market price of our Common Stock without regard to our actual operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · public announcements by us or other industry participants; · factors affecting the gold market; · changes in national or regional economic conditions; and · general market conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 