Risk Factors” below. Whether future gold prices and the results of the Joint Venture’s operations will reach and maintain a level necessary to repay the Initial Loans, complete the Initial Phase, and thereafter generate net income cannot be assured. 2007 Operational Highlights As the Joint Venture’s Manager, AngloGold provides the Company with detailed information on the activities and operations of the Joint Venture. The following description of the Joint Venture’s operation is derived from reports made available by the Manager, upon whom reliance is placed. Production In 2007, Joint Venture gold production was 281,822 troy ounces compared to 283,486 troy ounces of gold produced during 2006. CC&V experienced a prolonged drought over the fourteen months leading into June 2006. The drought caused reduced pregnant pond levels within the Valley Leach Facility (“VLF”), which caused CC&V to reduce the flow rates through the gold recovery circuit, which in turn resulted in reduced fluid movement through the leach facility, and ultimately reduced daily gold recoveries. During 2007, CC&V addressed the water shortage by approximately doubling the amount of water available to the mine, from 1,000 gallons per minute to 2,000 gallons per minute. Further, the mine received precipitation at more historically average rates during 2007. Nonetheless, the inventory of recoverable gold ounces in inventory on the VLF grew during the year (+76,427 troy ounces), ending at 627,767 recoverable troy ounces of gold. During 2007, CC&V mined 22,811,308 tons of ore, including 491,596 tons run of mine ore (ore which was sufficiently fine after blasting and mining and therefore not sent through the crusher circuit), containing an estimated 559,783 troy ounces of gold of which 358,249 are estimated to be recoverable. The average recoverable ore grade mined during 2007 was 0.025 troy ounces per ton of ore. The average strip ratio overburden to ore mine was 1.35. The mining and crushing operations are performing at a 22 million ore ton per year pace in spite of numerous truck and shovel maintenance challenges. Variable mining costs continue to escalate, in part due to increased mining volumes; however, commodity costs are the primary driver of increased costs at CC&V. Commodity costs have been increasing, and continue to increase, resulting in higher overall costs per troy ounce of gold produced. Mine personnel continue to seek efficiencies and to manage costs to minimize the impact upon cost per ounce. CC&V mined a total of 53.5 million tons of material during the year. The crushing facility operated at above plant design capacity (20 million tons/year) during the year, crushing 22.3 million tons during the year. Revenue and Costs During 2007, the Joint Venture sold 279,458 troy ounces of gold at an average price of $697 per ounce producing total gold sale revenues of approximately $194.8 million. The Joint Venture cash production costs for 2007 were approximately $269 per troy ounce compared to $246 per troy ounce during 2006 and a budget of $270 per troy ounce. The main reason for the higher cost per ounce in 2007 compared to the cost per ounce during 2006 was the increase in the price of commodities consumed in operations during 2007. The Joint Venture had total operating costs of $103 million, including depreciation, depletion, amortization and reclamation expenses of $25.4 million and 3 accretion expense of $1.8 million for the year. This compares to $98.3 million, $26.5 million and $1.4 million for the year ended 2006. Interest expense on the Initial Loans was approximately $32.8 million (compared to $34.4 and $29.2 million in the years 2006 and 2005, respectively). In 2007, the Company received its Minimum Annual Distribution of $250,000 which will be recouped from future shares of Net Proceeds to the Company. Ore Reserves and Non-reserve Mineralization The Joint Venture focused on development, exploration and engineering feasibility work concerning future operations. The main objective of CC&V’s continuing exploration program for 2007 was to drill the west wall of the East Cresson (Altman) to determine the feasibility of expanding the mine in that direction, to continue the expansion of the Control Point and Schist Island mineral deposits and to expand information on the gold mineralization in the Globe Hill area with particular emphasis on metallurgical and geotechnical data, and to further increase the drill information available within areas which have previously indicated existing mineralization. CC&V currently controls over 85% of the patented claims within the district and 100% of the land within the year-end 2007 total mineral resource. All gold ore reserves and mineral resources are stated at 100% ownership basis, although portions of the ore reserves are co-tenant claims and portions are subject to third party royalties which vary according to individual agreements with the underlying property owner. Each year CC&V models its gold ore reserves to incorporate the results of its exploration program, new geologic information, revised metallurgical recoveries, revised gold price, new geotechnical data, new pit designs, new operating costs and/or allowances for depletion. All ore reserves for 2007 were modeled using a $550 gold price, the same gold price that was used to model the reserves shown for 2006. The cutoff grade for reserves remained unchanged from 2006 at a recoverable cutoff of 0.007 ounces per ton. The year-end, district-wide, central drill hole database contains 8,924 drill holes (6% core and 94% reverse circulation rotary) with a total footage of 5,049,895 feet. Samples are collected from the reverse circulation drills at five foot intervals and split with a rotary, wet splitter. Coarse exploration drill samples are collected as two splits. One split (analytical sample) is sent for analysis, and the second split is kept as a coarse replicate (metallurgical sample). Individual samples are dried, split into one 300 gram sample, pulverized to 95% minus 150 mesh, blended and fire assayed (FA) using a one assay-ton charge. Prior to 1996, all samples greater than 0.010 opt FA were also analyzed for cyanide soluble gold using a shake leach method (SL). As of 1996, all samples are analyzed using both FA and SL assay methods. Resource shells were changed to a $700 Lerchs-Grossman envelope around the reserve pits for 2007 resource estimates from the $650 price of gold used in 2006 ore resource estimates. The geostatistical modeling procedures used by the Manager in computing the ore reserves have been reviewed by independent consultants (AMEC, Inc., Independent Mining Consultants, Inc., Mine Reserve Associates, Inc., Mineral Resource Development Associates, Inc., and Mine Development Associates, Inc.) over previous years, and conform to industry standards. The ore reserves are shown on the table below: 4 Cripple Creek & Victor Gold Mining District Unaudited CC&V Ore Reserve Estimate as of December 31, 2007* Ore Tons (000's) Gold Ounces Per Ton Contained Gold Ounces Proven 118,904 0.028 3,338,792 Probable 52,455 0.027 1,414,237 Total Reserves, 2007 171,359 0.028 4,753,029 Change from 2006 29,127 910,554 Unaudited CC&V Ore Reserve Estimate as of December 31, 2006* Ore Tons (000's) Gold Ounces Per Ton Contained Gold Ounces Proven 102,995 0.027 2,797,639 Probable 39,237 0.027 1,044,836 Total Reserves, 2007 142,232 0.027 3,842,475 Note: The tonnage is shown in short tons. * These gold reserve figures were estimated based on a $550 per troy ounce gold price for all district deposits for the 2007 estimates and a $550 per troy ounce gold price for the 2006 estimates, and are subject to various royalties. There can be no assurance, however, that the Joint Venture can earn a profit when the market price of gold equals or exceeds the gold price used in estimating those reserves. ** Recoverability of contained ounces is based on heap leaching and metallurgical testing. Recoverability rates vary by ore type. The recoverable ounces shown are an estimate of the ounces of gold which can be economically and legally recovered based on weight-proportion metallurgical averages for all deposits and do not incorporate potential losses from dilution and mining recovery. The above estimates are based upon drill data and are a combination of “proven” and “probable” reserves. The classifications of “proven” and “probable” are taken from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Industry Guide 7, which defines the terms as follows. Proven (Measured) Reserves. Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable (Indicated) Reserves. Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. The ore reserve figures set forth above are estimates and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of gold from ore reserves will in fact be realized. 5 The increase in the December 31, 2007 ore reserves (an estimated 1,471,007 contained troy ounces of gold, with an estimated 779,316 recoverable troy ounces of gold) is primarily a result of additional exploration drill results used in the 2007 ore reserve model. 2008 Exploration Program The focus of the Joint Venture’s 2008 exploration program is to expand existing ore reserves, particularly in the Schist Island, Control Point and Globe Hill areas, and develop additional metallurgical information in mineral resource areas to enable it to change the classification of a portion of its non-reserve mineral resources to mineral reserve ounces of gold. It expects to achieve this goal through additional infill drilling, geotechnical drilling, and metallurgical drilling. Further, the Joint Venture is conducting exploration drilling in additional areas on a widely- spaced drill hole basis with the objective of defining additional mineral resources in the area. Industry Trends The dominant trend our industry has been facing is increasing gold prices. The increasing gold price trend has been interrupted periodically by corrections of varying magnitude. It appears to Company management that the various national and international economic trends such as increasing demand for gold, decreasing mine production of gold, weakness in the US dollar and instability in various countries around the world will continue for the immediate future. Company management believes the long term trend of increasing gold prices will continue to favorably impact the economics of its Joint Venture’s operations. The industry continues to be impacted by increasing costs such as diesel and natural gas. Company management expects continued cost pressures over time. Environmental Reclamation CC&V has developed an effective environmental protection and reclamation plan for this high-altitude, semiarid, cold-weather, year-round leaching environment. Reclamation has continued since 1992 to support post mining land use for wildlife, including elk. The Joint Venture has secured financial warranties of approximately $45 million with the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Board to secure reclamation of mining disturbances arising from the CC&V Joint Venture’s mining activities, and will likely be required to post additional sums to accommodate further mining at the Cresson site. Ongoing compliance with federal and state regulations includes seismic, fugitive dust, noise ground and surface water; as well as monitoring rain and snow fall, water and air emissions. Employment AngloGold provides the work force required by the Joint Venture, which has no employees. The number of AngloGold employees provided to the Joint Venture increased to 345 at December 31, 2007, from 327 at December 31, 2006. Governmental Regulation Like all mining operations in the United States, the Joint Venture is subject to a multitude of environmental laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governments including, but not limited to, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”); the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Act. The Joint Venture’s operations are subject to comprehensive regulation by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the United States Mine Safety and Health Administration and other state and local agencies. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits can result in injunctive action, damages and civil and criminal penalties. If the Joint Venture expands or changes its existing operations or proposes new operations, it may be required to obtain additional or amended permits or authorizations. In particular, CERCLA, commonly called the “Superfund Act”, contains stringent reporting requirements for the release or disposal of hazardous substances, with substantial fines for noncompliance. Certain solid and hazardous wastes from mining and mineral processing operations are temporarily exempt from regulation under RCRA. The EPA is currently considering the promulgation of a special set of rules to regulate mining wastes under RCRA, but those may be delayed pending anticipated Congressional re-authorization and revision of RCRA. The effect of any future regulation on the Joint Venture’s operations cannot be determined until 6 the legislative process is completed and new rules are issued. However, it is assumed that regulations may have a significant impact on operations of all mining companies and increase the costs of those operations. Although the Manager expects that compliance with federal, state and local environmental and land use laws and regulations will continue to require significant future outlays of resources, it is not possible to state with any certainty what impact such compliance may have on the Joint Venture’s future capital expenditures or earnings. Distribution of Proceeds and Other Financial Aspects The Joint Venture made payments of the Minimum Annual Distribution of $250,000 to the Company on June 13, 1991, January 15, 1992, and January 15 of each subsequent year, to and including January 15, 2008. Subsequent payments of the same amount are scheduled to be made on January 15th of each year until the conclusion of the Initial Phase, as defined in the Joint Venture Agreement, or until the completion of mining, whichever occurs first. The payments made on January 15, 1994 and subsequent annual payments of $250,000 constitute an advance on Net Proceeds and will be recouped by the Manager against future distributions of Net Proceeds. After recovery by the Manager of these advances, if the Company’s share (20% in the Initial Phase) of Net Proceeds exceeds the applicable Minimum Annual Distribution after recouping any advanced distributions, the larger amount will be distributed to the Company. The Joint Venture recorded net income of $58.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company accounts for its investment in the Joint Venture on the equity method. Joint Venture distributions in excess of the investment carrying value are recorded as income. During 1992, the Company’s share of Joint Venture losses exceeded the remaining carrying value of the investment and, accordingly, the investment was reduced to zero. The Company does not record its share of Joint Venture losses incurred subsequent to the reduction of its investment balance to zero. The Company believes that its liability for loss is limited to its loss of its equity in the Joint Venture. To the extent the Joint Venture is subsequently profitable, the Company will not record its share of equity income until the likelihood of receiving cash with the income is more certain. The likelihood of receiving cash distributions is impacted by numerous variables, including the market price of gold bullion, the efficiency of CC&V’s operations, and costs of commodities. Based on the amount of the Initial Loans repayable to AngloGold Ashanti (Colorado) Corp., the Company is not likely to receive distributions in excess of the Minimum Annual Payment in the foreseeable future. The Company’s share of the Joint Venture net income, which has not been recorded in its consolidated financial statements, is approximately $11.8 million, $7.7 million and $1.9 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company’s accumulated unrecorded losses from the Joint Venture were $7.9 million as of December 31, 2006. As such, as of December 31, 2007, the Company’s accumulated unrecorded losses from the Joint Venture were eliminated and the Company recorded Joint Venture equity of $3.9 million. As of December 31, 2007 the receipt of cash distributions from the Joint Venture is highly uncertain as the Joint Venture’s Initial Loans totaling $310,823,000 have not been repaid nor is it anticipated they will be repaid in the foreseeable future based on anticipated future cash flows from the Joint Venture’s operations. As a result, the Company has accounted for this uncertainty by creating a 100% valuation allowance against the Joint Venture equity interest of $3.9 million. It is anticipated by management that this valuation allowance against the Joint Venture equity will remain until it is determined by management that the collectibility of the investment in the form of future cash distributions becomes probable. Golden Cycle Philippines, Inc. (GCPI) GCPI and its exploration activities were placed into a standby status in January 1999 for the reasons stated below. GCPI Background In January 1997, GCPI signed a comprehensive exploration agreement (the “BGA Agreement”) with Benguet Corporation (“Benguet”), which provided that all costs and participation will be shared 50/50 by the parties. In October 1997, the two companies signed the First Supplemental Agreement to the BGA Agreement, which added 1,050 acres of mineral claims held by Benguet to the BGA. Under the terms of this supplemental agreement, GCPI will earn a 50% interest in these claims in exchange for funding the first $250,000 (about 10 million Philippine pesos) 7 of exploration work. The claim area lies immediately south of the historic Masara and Hijo gold mines in the Philippines and just north of Benguet’s Kingking copper/gold deposit. First Supplemental Agreement to the BGA Phase I of the exploration effort on the five Sagittarius Alpha Realty (“SAR”) claims was completed in May 1998. This effort consisted of geological mapping, grid soil sampling and analysis, and stream sediment and water analysis. This work indicates the presence of sizable areas interpreted to be anomalous gold concentrations. These must be further tested through trenching, tunneling and drilling to properly evaluate the gold potential. The Phase II exploration could not be carried out as the old leased claims have not as of this date been awarded a Mineral Production Sharing Agreement (“MPSA”) as required by the 1995 Philippine Mining Law. Thus, all work on this project has been placed on a standby basis until the MPSA is awarded to Benguet, as claim owner. Benguet has not applied for an MPSA as of January 2008. The Company expects to expend approximately $6,000 during 2008 to maintain GCPI on a standby status. Other Opportunities During 2001, the Company acquired two claim groups in Nevada: the Table Top and the Illipah gold prospects. During first quarter of 2002, the Company incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Golden Cycle Gold Exploration, Inc. (“GCX”), to independently direct the exploration efforts for these claim groups. As of this report, the Company has not yet funded GCX. Finally, the Company has an on-going exploration program in southwest Colorado. Table Top To drive to the Table Top claims from Winnemucca, Nevada, travel north on US Highway 95 for approximately one mile. Turn west, to the left, on Highway 49 towards Jungo, NV, a ghost town. At approximately 4 miles turn left towards an industrial plant and proceed to the railroad tracks. Turn right on the road that parallels the railroad and travel approximately 6 miles. At a culvert under the railroad tracks, turn right to the project area, see adjacent map. The Table Top claim group consists of 38 wholly owned Federal mineral claims, controlled by the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”), and lies within the Basin and Range province of north-central Nevada, which over the past forty years has become one of the world’s premier gold producing regions. The Table Top claims are subject to an Exploration Right with Option to Purchase agreement requiring the Company to pay the annual assessment fees to the BLM and Humboldt County and five percent of all expenditures on the property up to a maximum amount of 8 $500,000 to Mr. Wendt, from whom the claims were originally purchased. At present, the Company has paid Mr. Wendt approximately $8,000. The Table Top property can be interpreted to lie within the “Midas” gold bearing zone striking northeast across Nevada, and also as a part of a north-south trend containing the Sleeper Mine, Sandman, Florida Canyon, Rochester and Relief Canyon. The property is located ten miles west of Winnemucca, Nevada. The Table Top claims cover brecciated and silicified sediment that is poorly exposed and has only been unsystematically explored and partially drill tested in the past. The key gold mineralized feature on the property is a hydrothermal breccia, which contains anomalous gold, arsenic, antimony and mercury. Goldfields Mining Corporation first staked the Table Top property in 1986 while conducting surface exploration for an open pit type operation. A limited rock chip sampling and reverse circulation drilling program indicated the presence of a gold mineralized system. The Table Top claims do not have a readily available source of power, contain no known mineral reserve or resource, and are exploratory in nature. The Company’s intended exploration target will be the discovery of a high grade mineralized gold vein system at depth, to be developed by a phased exploration program. The Company does not anticipate additional exploration activity on this property during 2008. Illipah The Company entered into an agreement, effective August 23, 2006, with Tornado Gold International Corporation (TOGI-Q) (“Tornado”) pursuant to which Tornado acquired certain mining claims referred to as the Illipah claims. Tornado paid the Company $50,000 upon execution of the agreement. Under the agreement Tornado paid the Company an additional $50,000 and 50,000 shares of Tornado common stock which was due within ninety days of the date of the agreement, an additional 100,000 shares of Tornado common stock which was due within one hundred eighty days of the date of the agreement and (in March 2008) an additional 200,000 shares which were due within one year of the date of the agreement. Upon execution of the agreement, Tornado assumed Golden Cycle’s obligations in an underlying exploration and mining lease agreement on the claims, and granted to Golden Cycle a production royalty of two percent of net smelter returns on all rents and mineral production from the property. Tornado has the option, exercisable at any time prior to commercial production on any of the Illipah claims, to reduce Golden Cycle production royalties from two percent to one percent by paying Golden Cycle, at Golden Cycle’s option, either $1 million, or its equivalent in gold bullion at the August 23, 2006 closing price of gold on the New York Commodity Exchange. Tornado also agreed to undertake an exploration program on the Illipah property and related area of interest, and incur exploration and development expenditures of at least $750,000 within two years, of which $250,000 must be expended during the first year of the agreement. In the event of a default under the agreement by Tornado, Golden Cycle may reacquire the Illipah claims under certain circumstances. The Illipah project area can be reached by car from Ely, Nevada. From Ely travel west on US Highway 50 for approximately 33 miles. You will pass the turnoff for Illipah Reservoir to your left. Continue west on US Highway 50 for another 5 miles. Turn right, to the north on a gravel road. There is a stop sign at this intersection. Travel north for 6 miles to the project site, see adjacent map. The Illipah project area can be reached by car from Ely, Nevada. From Ely travel west on US Highway 50 for approximately 33 miles. You will pass the turnoff for Illipah Reservoir to your left. Continue west on US Highway 50 for another 5 miles. Turn right, to the north on a gravel road. There is a stop sign at this intersection. Travel north for 6 miles to the project site, see adjacent map. 9 This gold project is situated in eastern Nevada at the southern extension of the Carlin Trend that contains the largest accumulation of gold deposits in North America. The Illipah claims consist of 191 unpatented Federal BLM lode mining claims (approximately 3,800 acres) over a six-mile strike length that contains favorable stratigraphic and structural environments for the discovery of a significant gold deposit. The property is subject to advance royalty payments and a 2% Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) royalty on all mineral production. An NSR is a royalty, usually a percent, of smelter production less certain allowable costs such as smelting and transportation to the smelter. The NSR royalty is reduced to 1% if $2,000,000 in advance royalties is paid. Past production from the immediate area of Illipah is 37,000 ounces of gold from an open pit mined in the late 1980’s and early 1990’s. The ore was processed using heap leach technology. This gold mineralization is envisioned as a surface gold anomaly that indicates there is a strong possibility of high-grade gold mineralization at depth near favorable stratigraphic contacts and structures. The geological similarities between Illipah and Newmont’s Rain Deposit (the “Rain Deposit”) located 65 miles north-northwest are striking. The Rain Deposit originally was mined as an open-pit, but is currently being mined underground. The reported resource potential is 2 million ounces of gold and the average grade 0.40 oz/troy Au. The Illipah claims contain no known mineral reserve or resource and are exploratory in nature. Past exploration on the property largely focused on its near surface mineral potential, though some deeper exploration drilling was completed by two companies. The Company used generator power for its 2005 exploration program. Power is available just outside the property’s boundary should Tornado or the Company elect to pay the cost to bring it on to the property for future operations. Colorado The Company’s continuing exploration effort in the Company’s home state of Colorado was largely placed on hold during 2006 and 2005 while the Company focused on its exploration priority at that time, the Illipah exploration project until Tornado acquired the Illipah claims. The Company has developed a geologic concept indicating the possibility of an exploration target which meets the Company’s criterion in southwest Colorado. During 2007 the Company completed a regional study of the target area, including satellite imagery which it began in 2004, with the objective of narrowing the target area to two or three definable locations in which initial mineral sampling could be initiated. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by any forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or that we make in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or in other public statements. You should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, sell or hold our securities. Risks Relating to Our Company and Industry The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative in nature and is frequently unproductive. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration, and development activities will be commercially successful. Other than our interest in CC&V, we do not have any properties with current or planned gold production. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of mineable deposits of ore. Moreover, any mineralization discovery may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be mined profitably. We use the evaluation work of professional geologists, geophysicists, and engineers for estimates in determining whether to commence or continue mining. These estimates generally rely on scientific and economic assumptions, which may not be correct. As a result of these uncertainties, we may expend substantial amounts of funds on exploration or mining projects that may ultimately result in failure to locate gold minerals sufficient to justify commercial mining operations. Due to the nature of mining activities, we face risks of delays and increased costs resulting from environmental, technical, and geological factors. Mining activities are subject to substantial operating hazards, including weather, environmental conditions, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations, equipment breakdowns or malfunctions and work interruptions. There may also be limited availability of water, which is essential to milling operations. The occurrence of any of these events could delay or interrupt production, increase production costs, or result in liability for us. Our results of operation could therefore be adversely affected as well. We face strong competition in our industry and may not be able to compete effectively. Our industry consists of numerous companies which compete in the acquisition and development of mining properties. Many of these companies are significantly larger than us or CC&V. They may also enjoy access to more capital resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to engage in more exploration activities, acquire rights to more properties with potential quantities of gold, and more easily obtain the funds necessary to conduct production activities. Accordingly, we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies. The mining and mineral processing industries are subject to extensive governmental regulations which can impose significant costs and burdens. Our mining activities, including those of CC&V, are subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulations governing air and water quality, mine reclamation, solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal, and occupational safety. Although we are not aware of any circumstances which would cause CC&V or any of our other properties to be in violation of any of these regulations, there can be no assurance that we and CC&V will be able to be in compliance with such regulations in the future. Factors that may lead to our inability to comply with regulations include, for example, future changes in regulations, increased cost of compliance, and our financial condition in the future. Failure to comply with the regulations can result in injunctive action, damages, and civil and criminal penalties, all of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, CC&V had posted a bond of approximately $45 million with the Colorado Mined Land Reclamation Board to secure reclamation of mining disturbances arising from the CC&V Joint Venture’s mining activities, and will likely be required to post additional sums to accommodate further mining at the Cresson site. 11 We are subject to risks related to our Philippine activities. We have entered into an agreement with a Philippine mining company, Benguet Corporation. The operating agreement stipulates that our Philippine subsidiary, Golden Cycle Philippines, Inc., would manage the exploration, development and/or mining of certain designated properties in the Philippines. We have never before engaged in mining activities in the Philippines. Moreover, since our inception in 1972, we have never served as manager of any mining project in the United States or any foreign country. Consequently, we will, in connection with activities in the Philippines, be subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in any new business enterprise, such as the ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to raise sufficient capital. Further, we may also be subject to certain risks of doing business in foreign countries, such as political instability, unfamiliarity with local laws, and currency exchange risk. Currently all the activities of the Philippines subsidiary are on hold pending approval of a Mineral Production Sharing Agreement by the Philippine government. The Company wrote off the remaining value of its investment in the Philippine subsidiary during 2006. If opportunities to economically pursue activities in the Philippines are available, and if we elect to pursue them, additional capital may be required. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional capital, if required, or that such capital would be available to us on terms which would be acceptable. We are dependent on the efforts of key personnel and may be harmed if we are unable to retain these individuals. The success of our business depends, in large part, upon the skills and efforts of a small group of key personnel, including R. Herbert Hampton, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Treasurer. If we are not successful in retaining such key personnel, or attracting similarly qualified individuals, our business may be harmed. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our key personnel. Therefore, the loss of our key personnel could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We could be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This would impose significant restrictions on us and would be likely to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal assets include our equity interest and participation in the Joint Venture. Our interest in the Joint Venture could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. In the event that such interest is determined to have a value that comprises 40% or more of our total assets, we could be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless an exemption from registration were available or we were to obtain an order of the SEC excluding or exempting us from registration under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed an investment company, the Investment Company Act would impose significant restrictions on us, including severe limitations on our ability to borrow money, to issue additional capital stock and to transact business with affiliates. In addition, because our operations are very different from those of the typical registered investment company, regulation under the Investment Company Act could affect us in other ways that are extremely difficult to predict. In sum, if we were deemed to be an investment company it could become impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Risks Relating to the Cripple Creek Joint Venture Because we rely on CC&V for substantially all of our revenues and cash flow, our business will be harmed if CC&V’s operation is negatively impacted. Our participation in CC&V constitutes our primary business. Gold production at CC&V accounted for all of our total gold production in fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. Substantially all of our revenues and cash flow are derived from this gold production. Our results of operations, cash flow, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if production at the Cresson mine is disrupted due to unforseeable events such as labor interruptions, technical problems, or environmental factors, such as seismic events. In addition, AngloGold has the ability to reduce CC&V’s gold production, even without our consent. AngloGold, as the manager of the CC&V Joint Venture, develops, revises and implements budget and plans for the Joint Venture. As the 67% majority shareholder in the Joint Venture, AngloGold can adopt or change any plan or budget for the Joint Venture. We cannot assure you that AngloGold will not reduce CC&V’s planned gold production in the future which will materially and adversely affect our profitability. 12 CC&V is substantially dependent on AngloGold for its operating funds and may not be able to continue operations if such funds are no longer available. The exploration and development of CC&V’s properties are governed by the terms of the Joint Venture agreement, which grants operational responsibility and management authority in the Joint Venture to AngloGold. If AngloGold, whose proportionate share of the Joint Venture’s costs is much larger than ours, is not in a position to furnish (or otherwise chooses not to furnish) any operating funds required by the Joint Venture, it is unlikely that the Joint Venture would continue in operation. Because CC&V constitutes our primary operating asset, such an event would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Should AngloGold withdraw from the CC&V Joint Venture, our primary source of annual operating revenues would cease and, unless we find a new Joint Venture partner, our ability to continue as a going concern would be severely impaired. It is uncertain that we would be able to find a new Joint Venture partner, or that terms satisfactory to us could be negotiated with the new partner. CC&V has had a history of losses prior to 2004. Because CC&V’s profitability depends on the price of gold, it may incur losses again in the future. During fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 the CC&V Joint Venture recorded net income of $58.9 million, $38.4 million, and $9.5 million respectively. However, in previous years, CC&V incurred substantial losses during each year of operation except 1996. There is no assurance that CC&V will be able to achieve profitability in any subsequent period or to sustain profitability for an extended period. The ability of CC&V to operate on a profitable basis depends, to a large degree, on the market price for gold. The market price of gold is volatile, subject to speculative movement and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international, economic and political conditions, levels of supply and demand, the inventory levels maintained by gold producers and others and, to a lesser degree, inventory carrying costs (primarily interest charges) and international exchange rates. Whether gold prices will maintain a level that will enable CC&V to operate profitability on a continuing basis cannot be assured. It is unlikely that we will receive Net Proceeds from CC&V in the foreseeable future. Based on the amount of the Initial Loans payable by CC&V to AngloGold ($310.8 million as of December 31, 2007) which must be repaid prior to the distribution of any Net Proceeds to us, and the amount of income which the Joint Venture can reasonably be expected to generate over the next several years, we believe that, absent a significant and sustained increase in the price of gold and an improvement in the efficiency of the operations of the Joint Venture, it is unlikely that we will receive more than the Minimum Annual Distributions from CC&V for the foreseeable future based on the current terms of the Joint Venture Agreement. Therefore, even if CC&V achieves profitability for a sustained period, it is unlikely that this would have any impact on our cash flow for the foreseeable future. CC&V’s gold ore reserve figures are estimated based on a number of assumptions and may yield less gold under actual production conditions than the Joint Venture currently estimates. CC&V has prepared gold ore reserve estimates in accordance with industry practice and SEC Industry Guide Number 7. Ore reserve estimates are based on prepared mining plans; however actual reserves and/or production may vary from the estimates. Key assumptions used in the estimation may prove to be inaccurate (such as future gold prices, gold recovery rates, cut-off grades and operating costs). Reserve estimates require revision based on actual experience or new information. Experience may require changes or adjustments to the mining plans in a way which adversely impacts the ore reserve estimates. Future gold prices may decline, operating costs may increase, gold recoveries may decrease to a point which would make mining of lower grade mineralization uneconomical. Risks Relating to the Market Our stock price has been and could continue to be volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. The securities markets have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could negatively affect the market price of our Common Stock without regard to our actual operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • public announcements by us or other industry participants; • factors affecting the gold market; 13 • changes in national or regional economic conditions; and • general market conditions. Other Risks The Company has entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with AngloGold Ashanti Limited. On January 11, 2008, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Agreement and Plan of Merger”) with AngloGold Ashanti Limited, a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of South Africa, AngloGold Ashanti USA Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, and GCGC LLC, a Colorado limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti USA Incorporated. Under the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, the Company agreed to be acquired by AngloGold Ashanti Limited through a transaction in which the Company’s shareholders will receive consideration consisting of 0.29 American Depositary Shares of AngloGold Ashanti Limited for each issued and outstanding share of the Company’s common stock, rounded up to the next whole ADS, each whole ADS representing one ordinary share, par value 25 South African cents per share, of AngloGold Ashanti Limited. The transaction is subject to mutual customary conditions to closing, including approval of the holders of two-thirds of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock entitled to vote. Because the Agreement and Plan of Merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, many of which are beyond its control, the Company cannot guarantee that the Agreement and Plan of Merger and the merger will be consummated as anticipated, if at all. In addition, the Agreement and Plan of Merger allows for both parties to terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger upon the occurrence of certain events, including, in the case of AngloGold Ashanti, upon the occurrence of a “material adverse effect” (as defined in the Agreement and Plan of Merger) with respect to the Company. The Company cannot guarantee that these events will not occur and that either the Company or AngloGold Ashanti Limited will not terminate the Agreement and Plan of Merger. While termination by AngloGold Ashanti Limited under certain circumstances may entitle the Company to a termination fee of $1,440,000, AngloGold Ashanti is entitled to terminate under conditions that do not trigger the termination fee. Additionally, termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger by the Company under certain conditions will require the Company to reimburse AngloGold Ashanti Limited for its transaction expenses up to ($500,000) and will require the Company to pay a $5,760,000 termination fee to AngloGold Ashanti. If the Agreement and Plan of Merger and the transaction fail to close or close under different terms and conditions than currently contemplated, a shareholder in the Company’s common stock may not realize the full, anticipated benefits of the transaction, if at all. If the Agreement and Plan of Merger is terminated and the merger is not consummated, the Company may be unable to pay the costs and expenses of negotiating and documenting the Agreement and Plan of Merger, including administrative, accounting, and legal expenses, and the Company may be unable to pay ongoing general and administrative expenses without raising additional capital through debt or equity financings, which could potentially dilute shareholder interests. If the Company terminates the Agreement and Plan of Merger and is forced to pay the $5,760,000 termination fee, the Company may be unable to meet its ongoing liabilities and the Company would likely be required to raise additional capital. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise such additional capital, if required, or that such capital would be available to the Company on terms that would be acceptable. For a description of the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger and the merger, see the disclosure under Item 12 “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters – Changes in Control.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 