Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties that could affect the Company’s business. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to, the risk factors described below, in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following risks and uncertainties could affect the Company’s actual results and could cause results to differ materially from past results or those contemplated by the Company’s forward-looking statements. When used herein, the words “expects”, “believes”, “anticipates” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Results The Company’s quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may vary in the future due to a variety of factors, including changes in overall demand for customers’ products, success of customers’ programs, timing of new programs, new product introductions or technological advances by the Company, its customers and its competitors and changes in pricing policies by the Company, its customers, its suppliers and its competitors. For example, the Company relies on customers’ forecasts to plan its business. If those forecasts are overly optimistic, the Company’s revenues and profits may fall short of expectations. Conversely, if those forecasts are too conservative, the Company could have an unexpected increase in revenues and profits. The products which the Company manufactures for its customers have relatively short product lifecycles, therefore the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition are dependent in significant part on the Company’s ability to obtain orders from new customers and new product programs from existing customers. Competition The EMS industry is intensely competitive. Competitors may offer customers lower prices on certain high volume programs. This could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, all of which would materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s inability to provide comparable or better manufacturing services at a lower cost than its competitors could cause sales to decline. In addition, competitors can copy the Company’s non-proprietary designs after the Company has invested in development of products for customers, thereby enabling such competitors to offer lower prices on such products due to savings in development costs. Concentration of Major Customers At present, the Company’s customer base is highly concentrated and could become even more concentrated. The Company’s largest EMS customer accounted for 20% of net sales in fiscal year 2006. This same customer accounted for 19% of sales in 2005 and 12% in 2004. For the fiscal years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004, the five largest customers accounted for 71%, 68% and 58% of total sales, respectively. There can be no assurance that the Company’s principal customers will continue to purchase products from the Company at current levels. Moreover, the Company typically does not enter into long-term volume purchase contracts with its customers, and the Company’s customers have certain rights to extend or delay the shipment of their orders. The Company, however, requires that its customers contractually agree to buy back inventory purchased 5 Table of Contents to build their products if purchased within specified lead times if not used. The loss of one or more of the Company’s major customers, or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from such customers, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Dependence on Suppliers The Company is dependent on many suppliers, including sole source suppliers, to provide key components and raw materials used in manufacturing customers’ products. Delays in deliveries from suppliers or the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and raw materials could cause delays or reductions in shipment of products to the Company’s customers which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and damage customer relationships. Dependence on Key Personnel The Company’s future success depends in large part on the continued service of its key technical, marketing and management personnel and on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. The competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Foreign Manufacturing Operations Virtually all products manufactured by the Company are produced at the Company’s facilities located in Mexico and China. Accordingly, the Company’s operations are subject to a variety of risks unique to international operations including import and export duties and value added taxes, import and export regulation changes, the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws and foreign economic and political risk. Technological Change and New Product Risk The markets for the Company’s customers’ products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles. The introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. The Company’s success will depend upon its customers’ ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address evolving and increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. Failure of the Company’s customers to do so could substantially harm the Company’s customers’ competitive positions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s customers will be successful in identifying, developing and marketing products that respond to technological change, emerging industry standards or evolving customer requirements. Compliance with Current and Future Environmental Regulation The Company is subject to a variety of domestic and foreign environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, and disposal of materials used in our manufacturing processes. If we fail or choose not to comply with any present or future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of current manufactured products. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our operations or could require us to acquire costly equipment, substitute materials, or incur other significant expenses to comply with government regulations. Foreign Currency Fluctuations A significant portion of the Company’s operations and customers are in foreign locations. As a result, transactions may occur in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations among other currencies used by the Company could directly or indirectly affect our financial results. Future currency fluctuations are dependent upon a number of factors and cannot be easily predicted. The Company began to use forward Mexican peso contracts subsequent to year end to hedge foreign currency fluctuation for weekly payroll costs. However, unexpected expenses could occur from future fluctuations in exchange rates. Dilution and Stock Price Volatility As of July 1, 2006, there were outstanding options for the purchase of approximately 1,925,000 shares of common stock of the Company (Common Stock), of which options for approximately 1,911,000 shares were vested and exercisable. Holders of the Common Stock will suffer immediate and substantial dilution to the extent outstanding options to purchase the Common Stock are exercised. The stock price of the Company may be subject to wide fluctuations and possible rapid increases or declines over a short time period. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to the Company such as variations in quarterly operating results or changes in analysts’ earnings estimates, or to factors relating to the EMS and computer industries or to the securities markets in general, which, in recent years, have experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stocks are traded. 6 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 