ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to the Company that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, or operating results, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the Company’s common stock. These risks could cause Arctic Cat’s actual results to differ materially from its historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by Arctic Cat are qualified by the risks described below. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. General Economic Conditions and Certain Other External Factors Companies within the snowmobile and ATV industry are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions and political changes. Specific factors affecting the industry include: · Overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; · Interest rates, related higher dealer floorplan costs · Sales incentives and promotional costs · Adverse impact on margins of increases in raw material and transportation costs which companies are unable to pass on to dealers without negatively affecting sales; and · Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. The economic recession currently being experienced has negatively impacted our sales and we may continue to suffer lower sales levels until the end or near the end of the recession. The Company’s products are subject to extensive federal and state safety, environmental and other government regulation that may require the Company to incur expenses or modify product offerings in order to maintain compliance with the actions of regulators. The Company’s products are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to safety, environmental and other regulations promulgated by the U.S. and Canadian federal governments and individual states and provinces as well as international regulatory authorities. Although the Company believes that its snowmobiles, and ATVs have always complied with applicable vehicle safety and emissions standards and related regulations, there can be no assurance that future regulations will not require additional safety standards or emission reductions that would require additional expenses and/or modification of product offerings in order to maintain such compliance. Although the Company is unable to predict the ultimate impact of adopted or proposed regulations on its business and operating results, the Company believes that its business would be no more adversely affected than those of its competitors by the adoption of any pending laws or regulations. A significant adverse determination in any material product liability claim against the Company could adversely affect its operating results or financial condition. Accidents involving personal injury and property damage occur in the use of snowmobiles and ATVs. Claims have been made against the Company from time to time. It is the Company’s policy to vigorously defend against these actions. The Company presently maintains product liability insurance on a “per occurrence” basis (with coverage being provided in respect of accidents which occurred during the policy year, regardless of when the related claim is made) in the amount of $10,000,000 in the aggregate, with a $10,000,000 self-insured retention. While Arctic Cat does not believe the outcome of any pending product liability litigation will have a material adverse effect on its operations, no assurance can be given that material product liability claims against Arctic Cat will not be made in the future. Adverse determination of material product liability claims made against Arctic Cat could adversely affect its operating results or financial condition. Significant repair and/or replacement with respect to product warranty claims or product recalls could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. The Company provides a limited warranty for a period of six months for its ATVs and one year for its snowmobiles. The Company may provide longer warranties in certain geographical markets as determined by local regulations and market conditions. Although the Company employs quality control procedures, sometimes a product is distributed which needs repair or replacement. The Company’s standard warranties require the Company or its dealers to repair or replace defective products during such warranty periods at no cost to the consumer. Historically, product recalls have been administered through the Company’s dealers and distributors and have not had a material effect on the Company’s business. See Note A of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changing weather conditions may reduce demand for certain Arctic Cat products and negatively impact net sales. Lack of snowfall in any year in any particular region of the United States or Canada may adversely affect snowmobile retail sales and related parts, garments and accessories sales in that region. There is no assurance that weather conditions will not materially affect the Company’s future sales of snowmobiles, ATVs, and parts, garments and accessories. 9 Table of Contents The Company faces intense competition in all product lines, from competitors that have greater financial and marketing resources. Failure to compete effectively against competitors would negatively impact the Company’s business and operating results. The snowmobile and ATV markets in the United States and Canada are highly competitive. Competition in such markets is based upon a number of factors, including performance, ride, suspension, innovation, technology, styling, fit and finish, brand loyalty, reliability, durability, price and distribution. At the dealer level, competition is based on a number of factors including sales and marketing support programs (such as sales incentives and cooperative advertising). The Company’s competitors are more diversified and have financial and marketing resources which are substantially greater than those of the Company. In addition, the Company’s products compete with many other recreational products for the discretionary spending of consumers and to a lesser extent, with other vehicles designed for utility applications. If the Company is not able to effectively compete in this environment, its business and operating results will be negatively impacted. Termination or interruption of supply arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or results of operations. Suzuki has manufactured snowmobile engines and through fiscal 2008 certain ATV engines for the Company pursuant to supply agreements which are automatically renewed annually unless terminated. During late fiscal 2005, the Company began manufacturing certain of its own designed ATV engines as part of a strategic first step in a new engine program. The Company believes that having the capability to design and manufacture its own ATV engines will enable Arctic Cat to offer customers more choices, provide excellent value, lower Japanese yen currency exposure and enhance its long-term competitive position. In 2007, the Company transitioned its engine manufacturing from the Thief River Falls facility to its new facility in St. Cloud, Minnesota. Beginning in fiscal 2009, substantially all the Company’s ATV’s will use engines that are produced from the Company’s engine facility or purchased separately or as part of the 50cc to 366cc units the Company receives from a Taiwanese supplier. The Company and Suzuki have enjoyed an excellent relationship since the Company’s inception. Suzuki purchased approximately 31% of the Company’s then outstanding capital stock in July 1988, prior to the Company’s initial public offering in July of 1990, and is currently the Company’s largest shareholder with approximately 34% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. If Suzuki were ever to cease supplying snowmobile engines to the Company, such an interruption could materially and adversely affect production and results of operations. While notice of termination of the supply agreement may be given annually, effective termination of supply would take at least one model year and the Company believes it could take up to two model years for the Company or a new engine supplier to be in a position to manufacture the Company’s specially designed snowmobile engines. As a consequence, the Company regularly evaluates alternative snowmobile engine supply sources. While the Company anticipates no significant difficulties in obtaining substitute supply arrangements for other raw materials or components for which it relies upon limited sources of supply, there can be no assurance that alternate supply arrangements will be made on satisfactory terms. Interruption of dealer floorplan financing in North America could have a material impact on the Company’s business operations. The Company has agreements with Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) to provide snowmobile and ATV floor plan financing for the Company’s North American dealers. These agreements improve the Company’s liquidity by financing dealer purchases of products without requiring substantial use of the Company’s working capital. The Company is paid by the floorplan companies shortly after shipment and as part of its marketing programs the Company pays the floor plan financing of its dealers for certain set time periods depending on the size of a dealer’s order. The Company’s agreements with TFC to floorplan its U.S. dealers terminates January 20, 2010 and its Canadian agreement terminates April 30, 2012. On December 22, 2008, Textron announced plans to exit the non-captive dealer floorplan business. While the Company anticipates securing another dealer floorplan source for its dealers there can be no assurance that an alternative source will be secured before the termination of its agreements with TFC or that the costs and other terms of such new financing source will not be significantly less favorable to the Company than has historically been available. Termination, interruption or nonrenewal of bank credit agreements could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business or results of operations. The seasonality of the Company’s snowmobile production cycle and the lead time between the commencement of snowmobile and ATV production in the spring and commencement of shipments late in the first quarter resulting in significant fluctuations in the Company’s working capital requirements during each year. Historically, the Company has financed its working capital requirements out of available cash balances at the beginning and end of the production cycle and with short-term bank borrowings during the middle of this cycle. While the Company expects to maintain adequate working capital financing from its lender, given the turmoil in the economy and banking sector, there can be no assurance that working capital financing arrangements will remain available or that the costs and other terms of new financing arrangements will not be significantly less favorable to the Company than has historically been available. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 