ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risks described 8 Table of Contents below. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. General economic conditions and other external factors may adversely affect our industry and results of operations. Companies within the snowmobile, ATV and ROV industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions, including high unemployment and economic recession. Specific factors affecting the industry include: • Overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • Interest rates and related higher dealer floorplan costs; • Sales incentives and promotional costs; • Adverse impact on margins due to increases in raw material and transportation costs which companies are unable to pass on to dealers without negatively affecting sales; and • Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. Our products are subject to extensive federal and state safety, environmental and other government regulations that may require us to incur expenses or modify product offerings in order to maintain compliance with regulations. Our products are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to safety, environmental and other regulations promulgated by the U.S. and Canadian federal governments and individual states and provinces as well as international regulatory authorities. Although we believe that our snowmobiles, ATVs and ROVs have always complied with applicable vehicle safety and emissions standards and related regulations, future regulations may require additional safety standards or emission reductions that would require additional expenses and/or modification of product offerings in order to maintain such compliance. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of adopted or proposed regulations on our business and operating results. A significant adverse determination in any material product liability or intellectual property claim against us could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. We are subject to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Accidents involving personal injury and property damage may occur in the use of snowmobiles, ATVs and ROVs and claims have been made against us from time to time relating to these accidents. In addition, our products, and the products of our competitors, incorporate significant amounts of intellectual property developed by us and others and, from time to time, parties assert claims against us relating to their intellectual property. It is our policy to vigorously defend against these product liability and intellectual property claims. We have recorded a reserve based on our estimated range of potential exposures to the legal proceedings and claims of which we are aware. Should any judgment or settlement occur that exceeds our estimate, or a new claim arise, we may need to adjust our overall reserve and, depending on the amount, such adjustment could be material and adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. Significant repair and/or replacement with respect to product warranty claims or product recalls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We provide a limited warranty for a period of six months for our ATVs and ROVs and one year for our snowmobiles. We may provide longer warranties in certain geographical markets as determined by local regulations and market conditions. Although we employ quality control procedures, sometimes a product is distributed which requires repair or replacement. Our standard warranties require us through our dealers to repair 9 Table of Contents or replace defective products during such warranty periods at no cost to the consumer. Historically, product recalls have been administered through our dealers and distributors and have not had a material effect on our business. Changing weather conditions may reduce demand for certain of our products and negatively impact net sales. Lack of snowfall in any year in particular regions of North America and Northern Europe may adversely affect snowmobile retail sales and related parts, garments and accessories sales in that region. Weather conditions may materially affect our future sales of snowmobiles, ATVs, ROVs and parts, garments and accessories. We face intense competition in all product lines, from competitors that have greater financial and marketing resources. Failure to compete effectively against competitors would negatively impact our business and operating results. The snowmobile, ATV and ROV markets in the United States and Canada are highly competitive. Competition is based upon a number of factors, including performance, ride, suspension, innovation, technology, styling, fit and finish, brand loyalty, reliability, durability, price and distribution. At the dealer level, competition is based on a number of factors including sales and marketing support programs (such as sales incentives and cooperative advertising). Many of our competitors are more diversified and have financial and marketing resources which are substantially greater than ours. In addition, our products compete with other recreational products for the discretionary spending of consumers. If we are not able to effectively compete in this environment, our business and operating results will be negatively impacted. Termination or interruption of engine and other supply arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Historically, Suzuki manufactured snowmobile engines (and through fiscal 2008, certain ATV engines) for us pursuant to supply agreements which have been automatically renewed annually. During late fiscal 2005, we began manufacturing certain of our own designed ATV engines as part of a strategic first step in a new engine program. We believe that having the capability to design and manufacture our own ATV engines enables us to offer customers more choices, provide excellent value, reduce Japanese yen currency exposure and enhance our long-term competitive position. In 2007, we transitioned our engine manufacturing from the Thief River Falls, Minnesota facility to our new facility in St. Cloud, Minnesota. Beginning in fiscal 2009, substantially all of our ATVs use engines that are produced from our engine facility or purchased separately or as part of the 90cc to 450cc units we receive from a Taiwanese supplier. In fiscal 2013, we announced an engine supply agreement with Yamaha where we will purchase select Yamaha 4-stroke engines for use in our snowmobiles. In the event that we need to obtain substitute supply arrangements for engine or other raw materials or components for which we rely upon limited sources of supply, alternate supply arrangements may not be available with comparable terms. Interruption of dealer floorplan financing could have a material impact on our business operations. We have agreements with GE Commercial Distribution Finance in the United States and TCF Commercial Finance Canada in Canada to provide snowmobile, ATV and ROV floorplan financing for our North American dealers. These agreements improve our liquidity by financing dealer purchases of our products without requiring substantial use of our working capital. We are paid by the floorplan companies shortly after shipment and as part of our marketing programs we pay the floorplan financing of our dealers for certain set time periods depending on the size of a dealer’s order. While we expect to continue with our current multi-year dealer floorplan arrangements, these arrangements may not remain available or the costs and other terms of new financing arrangements may be significantly less favorable to us than have historically been available. 10 Table of Contents Termination, interruption or nonrenewal of bank credit agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The seasonality of our snowmobile, ATV and ROV production cycles generates significant fluctuations in our working capital requirements during each year. Historically, we have financed our working capital requirements out of available cash balances at the beginning and end of the production cycle and with short-term bank borrowings during the middle of this cycle. While we expect to continue with our current multi-year working capital financing agreement from our lender, working capital financing arrangements may not remain available or the costs and other terms of new financing arrangements may be significantly less favorable to us than have historically been available. In addition, our current bank credit agreement contains covenants which we might be unable to meet in some future period requiring the need for waivers or alternate financing. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and prevent fraud. Companies that file reports with the SEC, including us, are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404. SOX 404 requires management to establish and maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting and annual reports on Form 10-K filed under the 1934 Act to contain a report from management assessing the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. A report of our management is included under Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of this report, and our auditors have provided an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting in this annual report. During its evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2013, management identified a material weakness resulting from the aggregation of certain deficiencies. We are undertaking remedial measures, which measures will take time to implement and test, to address this material weakness. There can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to remedy the material weakness identified or that additional material weaknesses or other control or significant deficiencies will not be identified in the future. If we continue to experience a material weakness in our internal controls or fail to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, such circumstances could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements, or adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports. Each of the foregoing results could cause shareholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price. See Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” for more information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 