ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We must successfully identify and analyze factors affecting our business, anticipate changing consumer preferences and buying trends, and manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to identify and analyze factors affecting our business and to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends and customer demands. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and may change between selling seasons. Changes in customer preferences and buying trends may also affect our brands differently. If we misjudge either the market for our merchandise or our customers’ purchasing habits, our sales may decline significantly, and we may be required to mark down certain products to sell the resulting excess inventory or to sell such inventory through our outlet stores or other liquidation channels at prices which are significantly lower than our retail prices, either of which would negatively impact our business and operating results. In addition, we must manage our inventory effectively and commensurate with customer demand. Much of our inventory is sourced from vendors located outside the United States. Thus, we usually must order merchandise, and enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise, up to twelve months in advance of the applicable selling season and frequently before trends are known. The extended lead times for many of our purchases may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing trends. Our vendors may also not have the capacity to handle our demands. In addition, the seasonal nature of the specialty home products business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory prior to peak selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to misjudgments in the selection and timing of merchandise purchases. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our products, our inventory levels will not be appropriate, and our business and operating results may be negatively impacted. 6 Table of Contents Our business depends, in part, on factors affecting consumer spending that are out of our control. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fuel prices, recession and fears of recession, war and fears of war, inclement weather, consumer debt, conditions in the housing market, interest rates, sales tax rates and rate increases, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security. These factors may also affect our various brands and channels differently. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our products, thus reducing our sales and harming our business and operating results. We face intense competition from companies with brands or products similar to ours. The specialty retail and direct-to-customer business is highly competitive. Our specialty retail stores, mail order catalogs and e-commerce websites compete with other retail stores, other mail order catalogs and other e-commerce websites that market lines of merchandise similar to ours. We compete with national, regional and local businesses utilizing a similar retail store strategy, as well as traditional furniture stores, department stores and specialty stores. The substantial sales growth in the direct-to-customer industry within the last decade has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and an increase in competition from established companies. The competitive challenges facing us include: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands or preferences better than our competitors; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and achieving customer perception of value; • effectively marketing and competitively pricing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; • developing innovative, high-quality products in colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes, and in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors; and • effectively managing our supply chain and distribution strategies in order to provide our products to our consumers on a timely basis and minimize returns, replacements, and damaged products. In light of the many competitive challenges facing us, we may not be able to compete successfully. Increased competition could reduce our sales and harm our operating results and business. We depend on key domestic and foreign agents and vendors for timely and effective sourcing of our merchandise, and we are subject to various risks and uncertainties that might affect our vendors’ ability to produce quality merchandise. Our performance depends, in part, on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We purchase our merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers and importers. We have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products, and any vendor could change the terms upon which they sell to us, or discontinue selling to us, at any time. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Better than expected sales demand may also lead to customer backorders and lower in-stock positions of our merchandise. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of one or more of our key agents or vendors could have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products that we felt were important to our assortment, unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. We may not be able to develop relationships with new agents or vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and/or more expensive than those we currently purchase. In addition, we are subject to certain risks, including availability of raw materials, labor disputes, union organizing activities, vendor financial liquidity, inclement weather, natural disasters, and general economic and political conditions, that could limit our vendors’ ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis and at a price that is commercially acceptable. For these or other reasons, one or more of our vendors might not 7 Table of Contents adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our stores or customers. In addition, our vendors may have difficulty adjusting to our changing demands and growing business. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brands, and could lead to an increase in customer litigation against us and an attendant increase in our routine litigation costs. Further, any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards could become subject to a recall, which would damage our reputation and brands, and harm our business. Our dependence on foreign vendors and our increased overseas operations subject us to a variety of risks and uncertainties. In fiscal 2007, we sourced our products from vendors in 43 countries outside of the United States. Approximately 60% of our merchandise purchases were foreign-sourced, primarily from Asia and Europe. Our dependence on foreign vendors means that we may be affected by declines in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to other foreign currencies. For example, any upward valuation in the Chinese yuan, the euro, or any other foreign currency against the U.S. dollar may result in higher costs to us for those goods. Although approximately 95% of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars, declines in foreign currencies and currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of one or more of our foreign vendors. This, in turn, might cause such foreign vendors to demand higher prices for merchandise, delay merchandise shipments to us, or discontinue selling to us, any of which could ultimately reduce our sales or increase our costs. We are also subject to other risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries. These risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, concerns over anti-dumping, work stoppages, economic uncertainties (including inflation), foreign government regulations, employment matters, wars and fears of war, political unrest, natural disasters and other trade restrictions. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Any event causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign vendors, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or increased tariffs or quotas, or both, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, some or all of our foreign vendors’ operations may be adversely affected by political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions. Our overseas operations in Europe and Asia could also be affected by changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, although we continue to improve our global compliance program, there remains a risk that one or more of our foreign vendors will not adhere to our global compliance standards such as fair labor standards and the prohibition on child labor. Non-governmental organizations might attempt to create an unfavorable impression of our sourcing practices or the practices of some of our vendors that could harm our image. If either of these occurs, we could lose customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. Our overseas operations are subject to certain U.S. laws applicable to us, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We must ensure that the employees in our overseas operations comply with these laws. If any of our overseas operations, or our employees or agents, violates such U.S. laws, we could become subject to sanctions, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. The growth of our sales and profits depends, in large part, on our ability to successfully open new stores. In each of the past three fiscal years, the majority of our net revenues have been generated by our retail stores. Our ability to open additional stores successfully will depend upon a number of factors, including: • our identification and availability of suitable store locations; • our success in negotiating leases on acceptable terms; 8 Table of Contents • our ability to secure required governmental permits and approvals; • our hiring and training of skilled store operating personnel, especially management; • our timely development of new stores, including the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction and other delays in store openings based on weather or other events; • the availability of financing on acceptable terms, if at all; and • general economic conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. For example, for the purpose of identifying suitable store locations, we rely, in part, on demographic surveys regarding location of consumers in our target market segments. While we believe that the surveys and other relevant information are helpful indicators of suitable store locations, we recognize that the information sources cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. In addition, changes in demographics, in the types of merchandise that we sell and in the pricing of our products may reduce the number of suitable store locations. Further, time frames for lease negotiations and store development vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays. Construction and other delays in store openings could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. We may not be able to open new stores or, if opened, operate those stores profitably. We must timely and effectively deliver merchandise to our stores and customers. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our fulfillment rates in direct-to-customer sales and timely and effective merchandise delivery to our stores. We rely upon third party carriers for our merchandise shipments and reliable data regarding the timing of those shipments, including shipments to our customers and to and from all of our stores. In addition, we are heavily dependent upon two carriers for the delivery of our merchandise to our customers. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather, natural disasters and possible acts of terrorism associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. Failure to deliver merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brands. In addition, fuel costs have increased substantially and airline and other transportation companies struggle to operate profitably, which could lead to increased fulfillment expenses. The increased fulfillment costs could negatively affect our business and operating results by increasing our transportation costs and decreasing the efficiency of our shipments. Our failure to successfully manage our order-taking and fulfillment operations could have a negative impact on our business. Our direct-to-customer business depends on our ability to maintain efficient and uninterrupted order-taking and fulfillment operations and our e-commerce websites. Disruptions or slowdowns in these areas could result from disruptions in telephone service or power outages, inadequate system capacity, system issues, computer viruses, security breaches, human error, changes in programming, union organizing activity, disruptions in our third party labor contracts, natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. These problems could result in a reduction in sales as well as increased selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, we face the risk that we cannot hire enough qualified employees, or that there will be a disruption in the labor we hire from our third party providers, especially during our peak season, to support our direct-to-customer operations, due to circumstances that reduce the relevant workforce. The need to operate with fewer employees could negatively impact our customer service levels and our operations. Our facilities and systems, as well as those of our vendors, are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption in our business. Our retail stores, corporate offices, distribution centers, infrastructure projects and direct-to-customer operations, as well as the operations of vendors from which we receive goods and services, are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, hardware and software failures, computer viruses and similar events. If any of these events result in damage to our facilities or 9 Table of Contents systems, or those of our vendors, we may experience interruptions in our business until the damage is repaired, resulting in the potential loss of customers and revenues. In addition, we may incur costs in repairing any damage beyond our applicable insurance coverage. We experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing stores. Various factors affect comparable store sales, including the number, size and location of stores we open, close, remodel or expand in any period, the general retail sales environment, consumer preferences and buying trends, changes in sales mix among distribution channels, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our merchandise mix, competition (including competitive promotional activity), current local and global economic conditions, the timing of our releases of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs, the cannibalization of existing store sales by our new stores, increased catalog circulation, continued strength in our Internet business and fluctuation in foreign exchange rates. Among other things, weather conditions can affect comparable store sales because inclement weather can alter consumer behavior or require us to close certain stores temporarily and thus reduce store traffic. Even if stores are not closed, many customers may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. These factors have caused and may continue to cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from earnings guidance we have provided. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis, and we expect that comparable store sales will continue to fluctuate in the future. Past comparable store sales are no indication of future results, and comparable store sales may decrease in the future. Our ability to maintain and improve our comparable store sales results depends, in large part, on maintaining and improving our forecasting of customer demand and buying trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base and using effective pricing strategies. Any failure to meet the comparable store sales expectations of investors and securities analysts in one or more future periods could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Our failure to successfully manage the costs and performance of our catalog mailings might have a negative impact on our business. Postal rate increases, paper costs, printing costs and other catalog distribution costs affect the cost of our catalog mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, which could be changed or discontinued at any time. Our cost of paper has fluctuated significantly during the past three fiscal years, and our paper costs are expected to increase in the future. Future increases in postal rates, paper costs or printing costs would have a negative impact on our operating results to the extent that we are unable to offset such increases by raising prices or by implementing more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. We have historically experienced fluctuations in customer response to our catalogs. Customer response to our catalogs is substantially dependent on merchandise assortment, merchandise availability and creative presentation, as well as the selection of customers to whom the catalogs are mailed, changes in mailing strategies, and the sizing and timing of delivery of the catalogs. In addition, environmental organizations and other consumer advocacy groups may attempt to create an unfavorable impression of our paper use in catalogs and our distribution of catalogs generally. In addition, we depend upon external vendors to print our catalogs. The failure to effectively produce or distribute our catalogs could affect the timing of catalog delivery. The timing of catalog delivery has been and can be affected by postal service delays. Any delays in the timing of catalog delivery could cause customers to forego or defer purchases. We must successfully manage our Internet business. The success of our Internet business depends, in part, on factors over which we have limited control. We must successfully respond to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage. We are also vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, costs and technical issues as we upgrade our website software, computer viruses, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches and 10 Table of Contents consumer privacy concerns. In addition, we must keep up to date with competitive technology trends, including the use of improved technology, creative user interfaces and other Internet marketing tools, which may increase costs and which may not succeed in increasing sales or attracting customers. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales in our Internet business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. Our failure to successfully anticipate merchandise returns might have a negative impact on our business. We record a reserve for merchandise returns based on historical return trends together with current product sales performance in each reporting period. If actual returns are greater than those projected by management, additional sales returns might be recorded in the future. Actual merchandise returns may exceed our reserves. In addition, to the extent that returned merchandise is damaged, we often do not receive full retail value from the resale or liquidation of the merchandise. Further, the introduction of new merchandise, changes in merchandise mix, changes in consumer confidence, or other competitive and general economic conditions may cause actual returns to exceed merchandise return reserves. Any significant increase in merchandise returns that exceeds our reserves could harm our business and operating results. We must successfully manage the complexities associated with a multi-channel and multi-brand business. During the past few years, with the launch and expansion of our Internet business, new brands and brand extensions, our overall business has become substantially more complex. The changes in our business have forced us to develop new expertise and face new challenges, risks and uncertainties. For example, we face the risk that our Internet business might cannibalize a significant portion of our retail and catalog businesses, and we face the risk of increased catalog circulation cannibalizing our retail sales. While we recognize that our Internet sales cannot be entirely incremental to sales through our retail and catalog channels, we seek to attract as many new customers as possible to our e-commerce websites. We continually analyze the business results of our three channels and the relationships among the channels, in an effort to find opportunities to build incremental sales. We may not be able to introduce new brands and brand extensions, or to reposition existing brands, to improve our business. We have recently in the past and may in the future introduce new brands and brand extensions, or reposition existing brands. Our newest brands – West Elm, PBteen and Williams-Sonoma Home – and any other new brands, however, may not be successful growth vehicles. In January 2006, we announced our decision to transition the merchandising strategies of our Hold Everything brand into our other existing brands. Further, if we devote time and resources to new brands, brand extensions or brand repositioning, and those businesses are not as successful as we planned, then we risk damaging our overall business results. Alternatively, if our new brands, brand extensions or repositioned brands prove to be very successful, we risk hurting our other existing brands through the potential migration of existing brand customers to the new businesses. In addition, we may not be able to introduce new brands and brand extensions, or to reposition brands in a manner that improves our overall business and operating results. Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self-insured exposures might have a negative impact on our business. We believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management. Insurance costs may increase substantially in the future and may be affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism and financial irregularities and other fraud at publicly traded companies. In addition, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices, if at all. Therefore, we may choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types or levels of risks. We are primarily self-insured for workers’ compensation, employee health benefits and product and general liability claims. If we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance or our self-insurance reserves, the loss and attendant expenses could harm our business and operating results. In addition, exposures exist for which no insurance may be available and for which we have not reserved. 11 Table of Contents Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property would have a negative impact on our business. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress rights, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our sales. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. In addition, the costs of defending our intellectual property may adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to legal proceedings that could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. We are involved in lawsuits, claims and proceedings incident to the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. There are an increasing number of cases being filed against companies generally, including a growing number of business method patent infringement lawsuits. The plaintiff in each case claims to hold a patent that covers certain technology or methodologies, which are allegedly infringed by the operation of the defendants’ business. We are currently a defendant in such patent infringement cases and may be named in others in the future, as part of an industry-wide trend. There has also been a rise in lawsuits against companies like us that collect personal information from customers. The cost of defending such claims or the ultimate resolution of such claims may harm our business and operating results. We need to successfully manage our employment, occupancy and other operating costs. To be successful, we need to manage our operating costs and continue to look for opportunities to reduce costs. We recognize that we may need to increase the number of our employees, especially in peak sales seasons, and incur other expenses to support new brands and brand extensions, as well as the opening of new stores and direct-to-customer growth of our existing brands. From time to time, we may also experience union organizing activity in currently non-union facilities. Union organizing activity may result in work slowdowns or stoppages and higher labor costs. In addition, there appears to be a growing number of wage-and-hour lawsuits against retail companies, especially in California. We contract with various agencies to provide us with qualified personnel for our workforce. Any negative publicity regarding these agencies, such as in connection with immigration issues or employment practices, could damage our reputation, disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor or result in financial harm to our business, including the potential loss of business-related financial incentives in the jurisdictions where we operate. Although we strive to secure long-term contracts with our service providers and other vendors and to otherwise limit our financial commitment to them, we may not be able to avoid unexpected operating cost increases in the future. Further, we incur substantial costs to warehouse and distribute our inventory. Significant increases in our inventory levels may result in increased warehousing and distribution costs in addition to potential increases in costs associated with inventory that is lost, damaged or aged. Higher than expected costs, particularly if coupled with lower than expected sales, would negatively impact our business and operating results. We are undertaking certain systems changes that might disrupt our business operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to source and distribute merchandise efficiently through appropriate systems and procedures. We are in the process of substantially modifying our information technology systems, including design, sourcing, merchandise planning and forecasting, purchase order and inventory management, customer order management, and pricing and promotions management. Modifications will involve updating or replacing legacy systems with successor systems during the course of several years. There are inherent risks associated with replacing our core systems, including supply chain and merchandising systems disruptions that affect our ability to get the correct products into the appropriate stores and delivered to customers. We may not successfully launch these new systems, or the launch of such systems may result in disruptions to our business operations. In addition, changes to any of our software implementation strategies could result in the impairment 12 Table of Contents of software-related assets. We are also subject to the risks associated with the ability of our vendors to provide information technology solutions to meet our needs. Any disruptions could negatively impact our business and operating results. We outsource certain aspects of our business to third party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in our business and increased costs. We outsource certain aspects of our business to third party vendors that subject us to risks of disruptions in our business as well as increased costs. For example, we have engaged IBM to host and manage certain aspects of our data center information technology infrastructure. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with IBM’s ability to provide information technology services to meet our needs. Our operations will depend significantly upon our ability to make our servers, software applications and websites available and to protect our data from damage or interruption from human error, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, labor disputes, natural disasters and similar events. If the cost of IBM hosting and managing certain aspects of our data center information technology infrastructure is more than expected, or if IBM or we are unable to adequately protect our data and information is lost or our ability to deliver our services is interrupted, then our business and operating results may be negatively impacted. Our operating and financial performance in any given period might not meet the extensive guidance that we have provided to the public. We provide extensive public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Although we believe that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future and is useful to our shareholders and potential shareholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Our guidance may not always be accurate. If, in the future, our operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Our quarterly operating results might fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including seasonality. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, depending upon a variety of factors, including shifts in the timing of holiday selling seasons, including Valentine’s Day, Easter, Halloween, Thanksgiving and Christmas. A significant portion of our revenues and net earnings has been realized during the period from October through December. In anticipation of increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including fixed catalog production and mailing costs and the costs associated with hiring a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce. If, for any reason, we were to realize significantly lower-than-expected revenues or net earnings during the October through December selling season, our business and operating results would be harmed. We may require external funding sources for operating funds. We regularly review and evaluate our liquidity and capital needs. We currently believe that our available cash, cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and cash available under our existing credit facilities will be sufficient to finance our operations and expected capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, as we continue to grow, we might experience peak periods for our cash needs during the course of our fiscal year, and we might need additional external funding to support our operations. Although we believe we would have access to additional debt and/or capital market funding if needed, such funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms. If the cost of such funds is greater than expected, it could adversely affect our expenses and our operating results. 13 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash to pay quarterly dividends at intended levels and for our stock repurchase programs. In January 2008, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $150,000,000 of the company’s common stock. In March 2008, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $0.115 to $0.12 per common share. The share repurchase and dividend programs require the use of a significant portion of our cash earnings. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities, new product development initiatives and unanticipated capital expenditures or to fund our operations. Our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, decrease the intended level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be limited or terminated at any time. Our ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Any failure to pay dividends or repurchase shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated and tested our internal controls in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant expenses and a diversion of management’s time to meet the requirements of Section 404. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we would be required to disclose material weaknesses if they develop or are uncovered and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or the New York Stock Exchange. Any such action could negatively impact the perception of us in the financial market and our business. In addition, our internal controls may not prevent or detect all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our operating results. Changes to existing accounting rules or regulations may impact our future operating results. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation No. (“FIN”) 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,” which we adopted on January 29, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in the recognition of an $11,684,000 increase in the liability for tax contingencies, which was accounted for as a reduction to retained earnings, and had an approximate net 40 basis point negative impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal 2007. A change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Other new accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our operating results. Changes to estimates related to our property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for certain of our store locations and other property and equipment in accordance with “Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” For example, we review for impairment all stores for which current cash flows from operations are either negative or nominal, or the construction costs are significantly in excess of the amount originally expected. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows over the life of the lease. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results, often up to 14 Table of Contents 20 years into the future. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be, and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain store locations and other property and equipment. If these impairment charges are significant, our operating results would be adversely affected. We must properly account for our unredeemed gift certificates, gift cards and merchandise credits. We maintain a liability for unredeemed gift certificates, gift cards and merchandise credits until the earlier of redemption, escheatment or four years. After four years, the remaining unredeemed gift certificate, gift card or merchandise credit liability is relieved and recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses. In the event that a state or states were to require that the unredeemed amounts should have been escheated to that state or states, our business and operating results would be harmed. Further, in the event that our historical redemption patterns change in the future, our operating results would be affected. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be on-going variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. For example, the adoption of FIN 48 had an approximate net 40 basis point negative impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal 2007. We rely on the services of key personnel, whose knowledge of our business and expertise would be difficult to replace. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of key personnel in our senior management, whose vision for our company, knowledge of our business and expertise would be difficult to replace. If any of our key employees leaves, is seriously injured or is unable to work, and we are unable to find a qualified replacement, we may be unable to execute our business strategy. In addition, our main offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, where competition for personnel with retail and technology skills is intense. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these skilled personnel, our business may be harmed. Further, in the event we need to hire additional personnel, we may experience difficulties due to significant competition for highly skilled personnel in our market. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that could cause us to incur unexpected expenditures and loss of revenue. A significant portion of our customer orders are placed through our website or through our customer care centers. In order for our direct-to-customer channel to function and develop successfully, we and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or knowledge to breach the security of customer transaction data. Although we take the security of our systems and the privacy of our customers’ confidential information seriously, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will effectively prohibit others from obtaining unauthorized access to our information and our customers’ information. Any person who circumvents our security measures could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our website and choose not to purchase from us. Any security breach could also expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, any of which could harm our business. In addition, states and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. We collect personal information from consumers in the course of doing 15 Table of Contents business. These laws will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these new laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 