ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. As a result, the price of our common shares could decline. Risks Related to the Company's Business Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets continue to experience extreme volatility and disruption. In many cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies' underlying financial strength. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in financial markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. As a result, and because of concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally, the resulting credit availability issues, the lack of confidence in the financial sector, the increased volatility in the financial markets and the reduced business activity could have a material adverse effect on the 8 Table of Contents Company's ability to access capital and manage liquidity. If current levels of financial market volatility and disruption continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed EESA into law. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury has the authority to utilize up to $700 billion to purchase distressed assets from financial institutions or infuse capital into financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under EESA pursuant to which it has purchased and will continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions such as the Company. Then, on February 17, 2009, President O'Bama signed ARRA as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the Capital Purchase Program and ARRA, will have on the financial markets or on us. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The federal government, Federal Reserve, FDIC, SEC and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken, or are considering taking, other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Like most banking organizations, a significant portion of our assets consists of loans, which if not repaid could result in losses to the Company. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As of December 31, 2009, our total loan portfolio was approximately $1,885,447 or 65% of our total assets. Three major components of the loan portfolio are loans principally secured by real estate, approximately $1,553,076 or 82% of total loans; other commercial loans, approximately $237,398 or 13% of total loans; and consumer loans, approximately $94,973 or 5% of total loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer installment loan portfolio and commercial loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market area. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. A related risk in connection with loans secured by commercial real estate is the effect of unknown or unexpected environmental contamination, which could make the real estate effectively unmarketable or otherwise significantly reduce its value as security. Credit issues, particularly within our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolio, may continue to broaden during 2010 depending on the severity and duration of the declining economy and the current credit cycle. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level estimated by management to be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses in our loan portfolio. Loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of our commercial loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the local real estate markets on collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security, and the evaluation of our loan portfolio by an external loan review. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Additionally, continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside the Company's control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our 9 Table of Contents monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. If we foreclose on collateral property, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings. We may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) environmental remediation liabilities; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment, or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. Significant interest rate volatility could reduce our profitability. Our results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. National, regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect market interest rates. While we have instituted policies and procedures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, at any given time our assets and liabilities will likely be affected differently by a given change in interest rates, principally because we do not match the maturities of our loans and investments precisely with our deposits and other funding sources. Changes in interest rates may also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on our loans and the level of financing or refinancing by customers. As of December 31, 2009, we had a negative interest rate gap of 18% of interest earning assets in the one-year time frame. Although this is within our internal policy limits, our earnings will be adversely affected in periods of rising interest rates because, during such periods, the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings will generally increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on loans and investments. If such an interest rate increase occurred gradually, we would use our established procedures to attempt to mitigate the effects over time. However, if such an interest rate increase occurred rapidly, or interest rates exhibited volatile increases and decreases, we might be unable to mitigate the effects, and our net interest income could suffer significant adverse effects. While management intends to continue to take measures to mitigate interest rate risk, we cannot assure you that such measures will be entirely effective in minimizing our exposure to the risk of rapid changes in interest rates. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) premiums in the future. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, EESA increased the limit on FDIC coverage of deposit accounts to $250. These developments will cause the premiums assessed to us by the FDIC to increase. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC Board of Directors determined deposit insurance assessment rates for the first quarter of 2009 at 12 to 14 basis points of deposits. Beginning April 1, 2009, the rates increased to 12 to 16 basis points of deposits. Additionally, the FDIC implemented a 5 basis point special emergency assessment on June 30, 2009, payable September 30, 2009. These higher FDIC assessment rates and any future special assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Future growth or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Company's future operating results erode capital or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Company's ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company's financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital if needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company's ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional 10 Table of Contents branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team. The loss of any of our senior managers could have an adverse effect on our growth and performance because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The loss of key personnel in a particular market could have an adverse effect on our performance in that market because it may be difficult to find qualified replacement personnel who are already located in or would be willing to relocate to a non-metropolitan market. Our ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released an interim final rule (the "IFR"), effective June 15, 2009, that provided guidance on the compensation and governance standards for participants in Treasury's Capital Purchase Program, and promulgated regulations to implement the restrictions and standards set forth in Section 7001 of ARRA. Among other things, the IFR and ARRA significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions previously imposed by EESA. Such restrictions apply to any entity that has received or will receive financial assistance under the Capital Purchase Program, and shall generally continue to apply for as long as any obligation arising from such financial assistance, including preferred stock issued under the Capital Purchase Program, remains outstanding. These ARRA restrictions shall not apply to any participant during such time when the federal government (i) only holds any warrants to purchase common stock of such recipient or (ii) does not hold any preferred stock or warrants to purchase common stock of such recipient. As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, the restrictions and standards set forth in Section 7001 of ARRA, as well as the IFR promulgated by the U.S. Treasury, shall be applicable to us. Such restrictions and standards may further impact management's ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as we are under Section 7001 of ARRA and the IFR. The geographic concentration of our markets makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, our operations are currently concentrated in 32 counties in Indiana, three counties in Illinois, two counties in Ohio, and three counties in Kentucky. As a result of this geographic concentration in four fairly contiguous markets, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in one or all of these markets could result in one or more of the following: •an increase in loan delinquencies; •an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; •a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or •a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. If we do not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, our financial performance may suffer. We face substantial competition for deposit, credit and trust relationships, as well as other sources of funding in the communities we serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, money market funds and other financial and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by our banks. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, it could adversely affect our financial performance and your investment in our common stock. Our historical growth and financial performance trends may not continue if our acquisition strategy is not successful. Growth in asset size and earnings through acquisitions has been an important part of our business strategy. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources and acquisition experience than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or 11 Table of Contents equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. We may use our common stock as the consideration for an acquisition or we may issue additional common stock and use the proceeds for the acquisition. Our issuance of additional securities will dilute your equity interest in us and may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue our acquisition strategy, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have in the past, or at all. Acquisitions entail risks which could negatively affect our operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: •exposure to asset quality problems of the acquired institution; •maintaining adequate regulatory capital; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •risks and expenses of entering new geographic markets; •potential significant loss of depositors or loan customers from the acquired institution; or •exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of an acquired institution. Any of these acquisition risks could result in unexpected losses or expenses and thereby reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. Unanticipated costs related to our acquisitions could reduce MainSource's future earnings per share. MainSource believes it has reasonably estimated the likely costs of integrating the operations of the banks it acquires into MainSource and the incremental costs of operating such banks as a part of the MainSource family. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses, such as increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of MainSource. If unexpected costs are incurred, acquisitions could have a dilutive effect on MainSource's earnings per share. Current accounting guidance requires expensing of acquisition costs. In prior years, these costs could be capitalized. In other words, if MainSource incurs such unexpected costs and expenses as a result of its acquisitions, MainSource believes that the earnings per share of MainSource common stock could be less than they would have been if those acquisitions had not been completed. MainSource may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the banks it has acquired and may acquire in the future and retain employees of such banks. MainSource's acquisition strategy involves the integration of the banks MainSource has acquired and may acquire in the future as MainSource subsidiary banks. The difficulties of integrating the operations of such banks with MainSource and its other subsidiary banks include: •coordinating geographically separated organizations; •integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; •combining different corporate cultures; or •retaining key employees. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of MainSource, its subsidiary banks and the banks MainSource has acquired and may acquire in the future and the loss of key personnel. The integration of such banks as MainSource subsidiary banks requires the experience and expertise of certain key employees of such banks who are expected to be retained by MainSource. We cannot be sure, however, that MainSource will be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate such banks' operations as subsidiary banks of MainSource. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the mergers, along with the integration of the banks as MainSource subsidiary banks, could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operation of MainSource. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Banking Industry Changes in governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future performance and growth. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations, as well as any acquisitions we may propose to make. Any change in applicable federal or state laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on us, our subsidiary banks and our operations. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could reduce the value of your investment. Changes in regulation or oversight may have a material adverse impact on our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, investigations and limitations related to our securities, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. In light of the current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company may be subject to future goodwill impairment charges During 2009, the Company recorded $80,310 in goodwill impairment charges in the second and fourth quarters. While the Company does not currently anticipate that there will be additional impairment charges required in the future, it can make no guarantees that none will be taken. If more impairment is recorded, it will have a negative impact on future earnings. Risks Related to the Company's Stock We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company's Board of Directors. Starting in the second quarter of 2009 and continuing to the present, the Company reduced the amount of cash dividends paid. This reduction was made to preserve capital levels at the Company. The Company may also be limited in the amount of dividends paid out as a result of its participation in the Department of the Treasury Capital Purchase Program. The price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of the Company's common stock to fluctuate: •announcements of developments related to the Company's business; •fluctuations in the Company's results of operations; •sales or purchases of substantial amounts of the Company's securities in the marketplace; •general conditions in the Company's banking niche or the worldwide economy; •a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' expectations; •changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; and •the Company's announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. 13 Table of Contents The Company's participation in Treasury's Capital Purchase Program (CPP) may adversely affect the value of its common stock and the rights of its common stockholders. The rights of the holders of the Company's common stock may be adversely affected by the Company's participation in the CPP. For example: •Prior to the earlier of January 16, 2012 and the date on which all of the Preferred Shares have been redeemed by the Company or transferred by Treasury to third parties, the Company may not, without the consent of Treasury, subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase, or otherwise acquire shares of the Company's common stock or preferred stock. •The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock unless it has fully paid all required dividends on the Preferred Shares. Although the Company fully expects to be able to pay all required dividends on the Preferred Shares, there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so. •As long as the Treasury owns the securities purchased from the Company under the CPP, the Company may not, without the prior consent of the Treasury, increase the quarterly dividends it pays on its common stock above $0.145 per share. •The Preferred Shares will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company. •The ownership interest of the existing holders of the Company's common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant the Company issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Preferred Shares is exercised. In addition, terms of the Preferred Shares require that quarterly dividends be paid on the Preferred Shares at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by the Company. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash the Company otherwise has available to pay dividends on its common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. The Company's charter documents and federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction that may favor or otherwise limit the Company's growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company's charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before acquiring control of any other company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 