RISK FACTORS Economic and Political Developments and Their Impact on Securities Markets Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business The Company is engaged in various financial services businesses. As such, the Company is directly affected by general economic and political conditions, changes in the rate of inflation and the related impact on securities markets, fluctuations in interest and currency rates, investor confidence, and changes in volume and price levels of the securities markets. Severe market fluctuations or weak economic conditions could reduce the Company’s trading volume and net revenues and adversely affect its profitability. The Company Faces Intense Competition The Company is engaged in intensely competitive businesses. See the section entitled “Competition” of Item 1 of this report for additional information about the Company’s competitors. Competitive pressures experienced by the Company could have an adverse affect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Regulatory and Legal Developments Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business The securities industry is subject to extensive regulation and broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. See the section entitled “Regulation” of Item 1 of this report for additional information regarding the Company’s regulatory environment and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, for a discussion of the Company’s legal matters. The Company could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanctions, including revocation of its subsidiaries’ registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, revocation of the licenses of its Financial Advisors, censures, fines, or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, if it violates such laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and business prospects. In addition, the regulatory environment in which the Company operates frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. The Company may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations, changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. The Company’s Business Is Highly Dependent on Technology The Company’s businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems, and its continued success will depend upon its ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of those systems and retain skilled employees. Failure of those systems, which could result from events beyond the Company’s control, could result in financial losses, liability to clients and damage to the Company’s reputation. 11 The Company’s Operations Could Be Adversely Affected By Serious Weather Conditions The Company’s principal operations are located in St. Petersburg, Florida. During the past two years, there has been a significant increase in hurricane activity in the Gulf Coast which has directly affected other parts of Florida. While the Company has a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from its Southfield, Michigan location (see section entitled “RJA - Operations” above), the Company’s operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect processing of transactions and communications. The Company’s Business is Dependent on Fees Generated from the Distribution of Financial Products A large portion of the Company’s revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities. Changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect the Company’s revenues and profits. Other Risks See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this report regarding the Company’s exposure to, and approaches to managing, market risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, credit risk, operational risk and regulatory and legal risk. OTHER INFORMATION MADE AVAILABLE BY THE COMPANY The Company's internet address is www.raymondjames.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, through links to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission website, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Company’s proxy statements. Investors can find this information under “About Our Company - Financial Results and SEC Filings”. These reports are available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Additionally, the Company makes available on its website under “About Our Company - Inside Raymond James - Corporate Governance”, a number of its corporate governance documents. These include; the Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance, Nominating and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, the Senior Financial Officers’ Code of Ethics and the Codes of Ethics for Employees and the Board of Directors. Printed copies of these documents will be furnished to any shareholder who requests them. The information on the Company's websites are not incorporated by reference into this report. Factors Affecting “Forward-Looking Statements” From time to time, the Company may publish “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or make oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as anticipated financial performance, future revenues or earnings, business prospects, projected ventures, new products, anticipated market performance, and similar matters. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company cautions readers that a variety of factors could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control, are discussed in the section entitled “Risk Factors” of Item 1 of this report. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. 12 ITEM 