ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. As a result, the price of our common shares could decline. Risks Related to the Company's Business Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally have affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. The Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services that the Company offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors. During 2010, the business environment has continued to be adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. While economic conditions in the United States and worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Such conditions have affected, and could continue to adversely affect, the credit quality of the Company's loans, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Recently enacted and potential further financial regulatory reforms could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is expected to have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: •a reduction in the ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; •increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; •the limitation on the ability to raise new capital through the use of trust preferred securities, as any new issuances of these securities will no longer be included as Tier 1 capital going forward; •a potential reduction in fee income due to limits on interchange fees applicable to larger institutions which could effectively reduce the fees we can charge; and •the limitation on the ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, which may negatively impact results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect the U.S. financial system or financial institutions, whether or when such changes may be adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced or how such changes may affect us. However, the costs of complying with any additional laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Like most banking organizations, a significant portion of our assets consists of loans, which if not repaid could result in losses to the Company. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As of December 31, 2010, our total loan portfolio was approximately $1,680,971 or 61% of our total assets. Three major components of the loan portfolio are loans principally secured by real estate, approximately $1,431,757 or 85% of total loans; other commercial loans, approximately $178,678 or 11% of total loans; and consumer loans, approximately $70,536 or 4% of total loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer installment loan portfolio and commercial loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market area. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. A related risk in connection with loans secured by commercial real estate is the effect of unknown or unexpected environmental contamination, which could make the real estate effectively unmarketable or otherwise significantly reduce its value as security. Credit issues, particularly within our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolio, may continue to broaden during 2011 depending on the severity and duration of the declining economy and the current credit cycle. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level estimated by management to be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses in our loan portfolio. Loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of our commercial loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the local real estate markets on collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current 10 Table of Contents economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security, and the evaluation of our loan portfolio by an external loan review. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Additionally, continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside the Company's control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. If we foreclose on collateral property, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings. We may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) environmental remediation liabilities; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws; (ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment, or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. Significant interest rate volatility could reduce our profitability. Our results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. National, regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect market interest rates. While we have instituted policies and procedures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, at any given time our assets and liabilities will likely be affected differently by a given change in interest rates, principally because we do not match the maturities of our loans and investments precisely with our deposits and other funding sources. Changes in interest rates may also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on our loans and the level of financing or refinancing by customers. As of December 31, 2010, we had a negative interest rate gap of 22% of interest earning assets in the one-year time frame. Although this is within our internal policy limits, our earnings will be adversely affected in periods of rising interest rates because, during such periods, the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings will generally increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on loans and investments. If such an interest rate increase occurred gradually, we would use our established procedures to attempt to mitigate the effects over time. However, if such an interest rate increase occurred rapidly, or interest rates exhibited volatile increases and decreases, we might be unable to mitigate the effects, and our net interest income could suffer significant adverse effects. While management intends to continue to take measures to mitigate interest rate risk, we cannot assure you that such measures will be entirely effective in minimizing our exposure to the risk of rapid changes in interest rates. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) premiums in the future. Insured institution failures during the past several years, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects the higher rate of insured institution failures to continue for the next few years compared to the past; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition the Dodd-Frank Act permanently implemented FDIC insurance coverage for all deposit accounts up to $250,000 and revised the insurance premium assessment base from all domestic deposits to the average of total assets less tangible equity. The minimum reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund has been increased from 1.15% to 1.35%, with the increase to be covered by assessments on insured institutions with assets over $10 billion until the new reserve ratio is reached. If financial institution failures continue and the FDIC reserve continues to decline, actions taken by the FDIC to increase assessment rates or enact special assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operation. 11 Table of Contents Future growth or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Company's future operating results erode capital or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Company's ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company's financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise capital if needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company's ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team. The loss of any of our senior managers could have an adverse effect on our growth and performance because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The loss of key personnel in a particular market could have an adverse effect on our performance in that market because it may be difficult to find qualified replacement personnel who are already located in or would be willing to relocate to a non-metropolitan market. Our ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by executive compensation and governance restrictions applicable to participants in Treasury's CPP, including restrictions on total compensation, equity compensation and severance payments. Additionally, recent proposed regulations issued by banking regulators regarding executive compensation may also impact our ability to compensate executives and, as a result, to attract and retain qualified personnel. The geographic concentration of our markets makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, our operations are currently concentrated in 31 counties in Indiana, three counties in Illinois, two counties in Ohio, and three counties in Kentucky. As a result of this geographic concentration in four fairly contiguous markets, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in one or all of these markets could result in one or more of the following: •an increase in loan delinquencies; •an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; •a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or •a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. If we do not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, our financial performance may suffer. We face substantial competition for deposit, credit and trust relationships, as well as other sources of funding in the communities we serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, money market funds and other financial and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by our banks. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, it could adversely affect our financial performance and your investment in our common stock. Our historical growth and financial performance trends may not continue if our acquisition strategy is not successful. Growth in asset size and earnings through acquisitions has been an important part of our business strategy. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources and acquisition experience than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or 12 Table of Contents equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. We may use our common stock as the consideration for an acquisition or we may issue additional common stock and use the proceeds for the acquisition. Our issuance of additional securities will dilute your equity interest in us and may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue our acquisition strategy, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have in the past, or at all. Acquisitions entail risks which could negatively affect our operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: •exposure to asset quality problems of the acquired institution; •maintaining adequate regulatory capital; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •risks and expenses of entering new geographic markets; •potential significant loss of depositors or loan customers from the acquired institution; or •exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of an acquired institution. Any of these acquisition risks could result in unexpected losses or expenses and thereby reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. Unanticipated costs related to our acquisitions could reduce MainSource's future earnings per share. MainSource believes it has reasonably estimated the likely costs of integrating the operations of the banks it acquires into MainSource and the incremental costs of operating such banks as a part of the MainSource family. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses, such as increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of MainSource. If unexpected costs are incurred, acquisitions could have a dilutive effect on MainSource's earnings per share. Current accounting guidance requires expensing of acquisition costs. In prior years, these costs could be capitalized. In other words, if MainSource incurs such unexpected costs and expenses as a result of its acquisitions, MainSource believes that the earnings per share of MainSource common stock could be less than they would have been if those acquisitions had not been completed. MainSource may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the banks it has acquired and may acquire in the future and retain employees of such banks. MainSource's acquisition strategy involves the integration of the banks MainSource has acquired and may acquire in the future as MainSource subsidiary banks. The difficulties of integrating the operations of such banks with MainSource and its other subsidiary banks include: •coordinating geographically separated organizations; •integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; •combining different corporate cultures; or •retaining key employees. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of MainSource, its subsidiary banks and the banks MainSource has acquired and may acquire in the future and the loss of key personnel. The integration of such banks as MainSource subsidiary banks requires the experience and expertise of certain key employees of such banks who are expected to be retained by MainSource. We cannot be sure, however, that MainSource will be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate such banks' operations as subsidiary banks of MainSource. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the mergers, along with the integration of the banks as MainSource subsidiary banks, could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operation of MainSource. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Banking Industry Changes in governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future performance and growth. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations, as well as any acquisitions we may propose to make. Any change in applicable federal or state laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on us, our subsidiary banks and our operations. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could reduce the value of your investment. Changes in regulation or oversight may have a material adverse impact on our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, investigations and limitations related to our securities, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. In light of the current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company may be subject to future goodwill impairment charges During 2009, the Company recorded $80,310 in goodwill impairment charges in the second and fourth quarters. No goodwill impairment charges were recorded in 2010. While the Company does not currently anticipate that there will be additional impairment charges required in the future, it can make no guarantees that none will be taken. If more impairment is recorded, it will have a negative impact on future earnings. Risks Related to the Company's Stock We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common stockholders. The payment of dividends is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Company's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company's Board of Directors. Starting in the second quarter of 2009 and continuing to the present, the Company reduced the amount of cash dividends paid. This reduction was made to preserve capital levels at the Company. The Company may also be limited in the amount of dividends paid out as a result of its participation in the Department of the Treasury Capital Purchase Program. The price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. In addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of the Company's common stock to fluctuate: •announcements of developments related to the Company's business; •fluctuations in the Company's results of operations; •sales or purchases of substantial amounts of the Company's securities in the marketplace; •general conditions in the Company's banking niche or the worldwide economy; •a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' expectations; •changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; and •the Company's announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. 14 Table of Contents The Company's participation in Treasury's Capital Purchase Program (CPP) may adversely affect the value of its common stock and the rights of its common stockholders. The rights of the holders of the Company's common stock may be adversely affected by the Company's participation in the CPP. For example: •Prior to the earlier of January 16, 2012 and the date on which all of the Preferred Shares have been redeemed by the Company or transferred by Treasury to third parties, the Company may not, without the consent of Treasury, subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase, or otherwise acquire shares of the Company's common stock or preferred stock. •The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock unless it has fully paid all required dividends on the Preferred Shares. Although the Company fully expects to be able to pay all required dividends on the Preferred Shares, there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so. •As long as the Treasury owns the securities purchased from the Company under the CPP, the Company may not, without the prior consent of the Treasury, increase the quarterly dividends it pays on its common stock above $0.145 per share. •The Preferred Shares will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company. •The ownership interest of the existing holders of the Company's common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant the Company issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Preferred Shares is exercised. In addition, terms of the Preferred Shares require that quarterly dividends be paid on the Preferred Shares at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by the Company. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash the Company otherwise has available to pay dividends on its common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. The Company's charter documents and federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction that may favor or otherwise limit the Company's growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company's charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before acquiring control of any other company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 