Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5 Market For the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer’s Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Pursuant to General Instruction G, the information called for by Items 10-14 is omitted by MainSource Financial Group, Inc. since MainSource Financial Group, Inc. will file with the Commission a definitive proxy statement to shareholders pursuant to regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year containing the information required by Items 10-14. 2 Part I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Dollars in thousands except per share data) GENERAL MainSource Financial Group, Inc. (“the Company”) is a financial holding company based in Greensburg, Indiana. As of December 31, 2005, the Company owned two banking subsidiaries: MainSource Bank and MainSource Bank of Illinois (together “the Banks”). Through its non-bank affiliates, the Company provides services incidental to the business of banking. Since its formation in 1982, the Company has acquired and established various institutions and financial services companies and may acquire additional financial institutions and financial services companies in the future. For further discussion of the business of the Company see Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Part II, Item 7. As of December 31, 2005, the Company operated 60 branch banking offices in Indiana and Illinois as well as eight insurance offices in Indiana. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had consolidated assets of $1,645,605, consolidated deposits of $1,352,697 and shareholders’ equity of $161,069. Through its Banks, the Company offers a broad range of financial services, including: accepting time and transaction deposits; making consumer, commercial, agribusiness and real estate mortgage loans; renting safe deposit facilities; providing general agency personal and business insurance services; providing personal and corporate trust services; and providing other corporate services such as letters of credit and repurchase agreements. The lending activities of the Banks are separated into primarily the categories of commercial/agricultural, real estate and consumer. Loans are originated by the lending officers of the Banks subject to limitations set forth in lending policies. The Boards of Directors of each Bank reviews loans up to the Bank’s legal lending limits, monitors concentrations of credit, problem and past due loans and charge-offs of uncollectible loans and formulates loan policy. The Banks maintain conservative loan policies and underwriting practices in order to address and manage loan risks. These policies and practices include granting loans on a sound and collectible basis, serving the legitimate needs of the community and the general market area while obtaining a balance between maximum yield and minimum risk, ensuring that primary and secondary sources of repayment are adequate in relation to the amount of the loan, developing and maintaining adequate diversification of the loan portfolio as a whole and of the loans within each category and developing and applying adequate collection policies. Commercial loans include secured and unsecured loans, including real estate loans, to individuals and companies and to governmental units within the market area of the Banks for a myriad of business purposes. Agricultural loans are generated in the Banks’ markets. Most of the loans are real estate loans on farm properties. Loans are also made for agricultural production and such loans are generally reviewed annually. Residential real estate lending has been the largest component of the loan portfolio for many years. All affiliate banks generate residential mortgages for their own portfolios. However, the Company elects to sell the majority of its fixed rate mortgages into the secondary market while maintaining the servicing of such loans. At December 31, 2005, the Company was servicing a $509 million loan portfolio. By originating loans for sale in the secondary market, the Company can more fully satisfy customer demand for fixed rate residential mortgages and increase fee income, while reducing the risk of loss caused by rising interest rates. 3 The principal source of revenues for the Company is interest and fees on loans, which accounted for 63.7% of total revenues in 2005, 61.9% in 2004 and 61.8% in 2003. The Company’s investment securities portfolio is primarily comprised of U. S. Treasuries, federal agencies, state and municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities and corporate securities. The Company has classified its entire investment portfolio as available for sale, with market value changes reported separately in shareholders’ equity. Funds invested in the investment portfolio generally represent funds not immediately required to meet loan demand. Income related to the Company’s investment portfolio accounted for 18.3% of total revenues in 2005, 16.6% in 2004 and 15.7% in 2003. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had not identified any securities as being “high risk” as defined by the FFIEC Supervisory Policy Statement on Securities Activities. The primary sources of funds for the Banks are deposits generated in local market areas. To attract and retain stable depositors, the Banks market various programs for demand, savings and time deposit accounts. These programs include interest and non-interest bearing demand and individual retirement accounts. Currently, national retailing and manufacturing subsidiaries, brokerage and insurance firms and credit unions are fierce competitors within the financial services industry. Mergers between financial institutions within Indiana and neighboring states, which became permissible under the Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, have also added competitive pressure. The Company’s Banks are located in predominantly non-metropolitan areas and their business is centered in loans and deposits generated within markets considered largely rural in nature. In addition to competing vigorously with other banks, thrift institutions, credit unions and finance companies located within their service areas, they also compete, directly and indirectly, with all providers of financial services. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, the Company and its subsidiaries had 617 full-time equivalent employees to whom it provides a variety of benefits and with whom it enjoys excellent relations. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION OF THE COMPANY The Company is a financial holding company (“FHC”) within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“Act”). This Act subjects FHC’s to regulations of the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) and restricts the business of FHC’s to financial and related activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was enacted on November 12, 1999. The Modernization Act, which amended the Bank Holding Company Act, provides the following: • it allows bank holding companies that qualify as “financial holding companies” to engage in a broad range of financial and related activities; • it allows insurers and other financial services companies to acquire banks; • it removes various restrictions that applied to bank holding company ownership of securities firms and mutual fund advisory companies; and • it establishes the overall regulatory structure applicable to bank holding companies that also engage in insurance and securities operations. 4 The Company initially qualified as a financial holding company in December, 2004. Thus the Company is authorized to operate as a financial holding company and therefore is eligible to engage in, or acquire companies engaged in, the broader range of activities that are permitted by the Modernization Act. These activities include those that are determined to be “financial in nature,” including insurance underwriting, securities underwriting and dealing, and making merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies. If any of our banking subsidiaries ceases to be “well capitalized” or “well managed” under applicable regulatory standards, the Federal Reserve Board may, among other things, place limitations on our ability to conduct these broader financial activities or, if the deficiencies persist, require us to divest the banking subsidiary. In addition, if any of our banking subsidiaries receives a rating of less than satisfactory under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”), we would be prohibited from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. Our banking subsidiaries currently meet these capital, management and CRA requirements. Acquisitions by the Company of banks and savings associations are subject to federal and state regulation. Any acquisition by the Company of more than five percent of the voting stock of any bank requires prior approval of the FRB, the FHC and, if applicable, state regulators. Acquisition of savings associations is also subject to the approval of the OTS. Indiana law permits FHCs to acquire bank holding companies and banks out of state on a reciprocal basis, subject to certain limitations. Under current law, the Company may acquire banks, and may be acquired by bank holding companies, located in any state in the United States that permits reciprocal entry by Indiana FHCs. Under the Act, FHCs may acquire savings associations without geographic restrictions. A FHC and its subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements in connection with the extension of credit, lease or sale of property, or the provision of any property or service. The Company is under the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and state securities commission for matters relating to the offering and sale of its securities. The Company is subject to the SEC’s rules and regulations relating to periodic reporting, reporting to shareholders, proxy solicitation and insider trading. The Company’s liquidity is principally derived from dividends paid on the common stock of its subsidiaries. The payment of these dividends is subject to certain regulatory restrictions. Under bank holding company policy, the Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and commit resources to support, its affiliates. As a result of such policy, the Company may be required to commit resources to its affiliate banks in circumstances where it might not otherwise do so. Certain regulations define relevant capital measures for five capital categories. A “well capitalized” institution is one that has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a leverage ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to regulatory direction to maintain a specific level for any capital measure. An “adequately capitalized” institution is one that has ratios greater than 8%, 4% and 4%. An institution is “undercapitalized” if its respective ratios are less than 8%, 4% and 4%. “Significantly undercapitalized” institutions have ratios of less than 6%, 3% and 3%. An institution is deemed to be “critically undercapitalized” if it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is 2% or less. Institutions with capital ratios at levels of “undercapitalized” or lower are subject to various limitations that, in most situations, will reduce the competitiveness of the institution. 5 REGULATION AND SUPERVISION OF THE SUBSIDIARY BANKS The Company’s affiliate banks are supervised, regulated and examined by their respective state regulatory banking agencies and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). A cease-and-desist order may be issued against the banks, if the respective agency finds that the activities of the bank represent an unsafe and unsound banking practice or violation of law. The deposits of the two banking subsidiaries are insured to the maximum extent permitted by law by the Bank Insurance Fund (“BIF”) of the FDIC. Branching by banks in Indiana is subject to the jurisdiction, and requires the prior approval, of the bank’s primary federal regulatory authority and, if the branching bank is a state bank, of the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”). Under Indiana law, banks may branch anywhere in the state. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary Banks. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which the Banks can supply funds to the Company. The principal source of the Company’s funds consists of dividends from its subsidiary Banks. State and Federal law restricts the amount of dividends that may be paid by banks. In addition, the Banks are subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to the Company, on investments in the stock or other securities of the Company and in taking such stock or securities as collateral for loans. CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS The Company and its subsidiary Banks must meet certain minimum capital requirements mandated by the FRB, FDIC and DFI. These regulatory agencies require BHCs and banks to maintain certain minimum ratios of primary capital to total assets and total capital to total assets. The FRB requires BHCs to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3 percent capital to total assets; however, for all but the most highly rated institutions which do not anticipate significant growth, the minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3 percent plus an additional cushion of 100 to 200 basis points. As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s leverage ratio of capital to total assets was 8.4%. The FRB and FDIC each have approved the imposition of “risk-adjusted” capital ratios on BHCs and financial institutions. The Company’s Tier 1 Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio was 12.6% and its Total Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio was 13.5% at December 31, 2005. The Company’s Banks had capital to asset ratios and risk- adjusted capital ratios at December 31, 2005, in excess of the applicable regulatory minimum requirements. 6 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. As a result, the price of our common shares could decline. Our historical growth and financial performance trends may not continue if our acquisition strategy is not successful. Growth in asset size and earnings through acquisitions is an important and continuing part of our business strategy. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources and acquisition experience than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. We may use our common stock as the consideration for an acquisition or we may issue additional common stock and use the proceeds for the acquisition. Our issuance of additional securities will dilute your equity interest in us and may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue our acquisition strategy, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have in the past, or at all. Acquisitions entail risks which could negatively affect our operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • exposure to asset quality problems of the acquired institution; • maintaining adequate regulatory capital; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks and expenses of entering new geographic markets; • potential significant loss of depositors or loan customers from the acquired institution; and • exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of an acquired institution. Any of these acquisition risks could result in unexpected losses or expenses and thereby reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. Unanticipated costs related to our acquisition strategy could reduce MainSource’s future earnings per share. MainSource believes it has reasonably estimated the likely costs of integrating the operations of the banks it acquires into MainSource and the incremental costs of operating such banks as a part of the MainSource family. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses, such as increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of MainSource. If unexpected costs are incurred, acquisitions could have a dilutive effect on MainSource’s earnings per share. In other words, if MainSource incurs such unexpected costs and expenses as a result of its acquisitions, MainSource believes that the earnings per share of MainSource common stock could be less than they would have been if those acquisitions had not been completed. MainSource may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the banks it is acquiring and retain employees of such banks. 7 MainSource’s acquisition strategy involves the integration of the banks MainSource is acquiring as MainSource subsidiary banks. The difficulties of integrating the operations of such banks with MainSource and its other subsidiary banks include: • coordinating geographically separated organizations; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; • combining different corporate cultures; and • retaining key employees. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of MainSource, its subsidiary banks and the banks MainSource is acquiring and the loss of key personnel. The integration of such banks as MainSource subsidiary banks will require the experience and expertise of certain key employees of such banks who are expected to be retained by MainSource. We cannot be sure, however, that MainSource will be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate such banks’ operations as subsidiary banks of MainSource. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the mergers, along with the integration of the banks as MainSource subsidiary banks, could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operation of MainSource. Like most banking organizations, our business is highly susceptible to credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As of December 31, 2005, our total loan portfolio was approximately $958 million or 58% of our total assets. Three major components of the loan portfolio are loans principally secured by real estate, approximately $662 million or 68% of total loans, other commercial loans, approximately $149 million or 16% of total loans, and consumer loans, approximately $123 million or 13% of total loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer installment loan portfolio and commercial loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market area. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. A related risk in connection with loans secured by commercial real estate is the effect of unknown or unexpected environmental contamination, which could make the real estate effectively unmarketable or otherwise significantly reduce its value as security. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of our commercial loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the local real estate market on collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security, and the evaluation of our loan portfolio by an external loan review. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Federal and state regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 8 We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team, including James L. Saner, Sr., our President and Chief Executive Officer, James M. Anderson, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the presidents of our subsidiary banks and our other senior managers. The loss of either Mr. Saner or Mr. Anderson, or any of our other senior managers, could have an adverse effect on our growth and performance because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The loss of key personnel in a particular market could have an adverse effect on our performance in that market because it may be difficult to find qualified replacement personnel who are already located in or would be willing to relocate to a non-metropolitan market. Significant interest rate volatility could reduce our profitability. Our results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. National, regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect market interest rates. While we have instituted policies and procedures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, at any given time our assets and liabilities will likely be affected differently by a given change in interest rates, principally because we do not match the maturities of our loans and investments precisely with our deposits and other funding sources. Changes in interest rates may also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on our loans and the level of financing or refinancing by customers. As of December 31, 2005, we had a negative interest rate gap of 23% of interest earning assets in the one-year time frame. Although this is within our internal policy limits, our earnings will be adversely affected in periods of rising interest rates because, during such periods, the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings will generally increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on loans and investments. If such an interest rate increase occurred gradually, we would use our established procedures to attempt to mitigate the effects over time. However, if such an interest rate increase occurred rapidly, or interest rates exhibited volatile increases and decreases, we might be unable to mitigate the effects, and our net interest income could suffer significant adverse effects. While management intends to continue to take measures to mitigate interest rate risk, we cannot assure you that such measures will be entirely effective in minimizing our exposure to the risk of rapid changes in interest rates. Changes in governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future performance and growth. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations, as well as any acquisitions we may propose to make. Any change in applicable federal or state laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on us, our subsidiary banks and our operations. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could reduce the value of your investment. Our strategy to minimize Indiana state taxes on our investment portfolio may be unsuccessful. Since 2002, our Indiana state financial institutions taxes have been reduced by our use of subsidiaries we formed in the State of Nevada to hold the investment portfolios of two of our bank subsidiaries. Nevada has no state or local income tax, and we take the position that none of this income is subject to the Indiana financial institutions tax. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our net savings in Indiana tax from this arrangement (after federal tax) was approximately $600,000. Although management believes that this arrangement is permitted under Indiana law, and Indiana tax authorities have not challenged our tax returns in this regard, we understand that Indiana tax authorities have recently challenged a similar arrangement implemented by at least one other Indiana-based bank holding company. If we were not permitted to realize state tax savings from this arrangement, it would cause our net income after taxes to be lower in the future, and if Indiana tax authorities challenged our arrangement and were successful in assessing additional taxes, interest and penalties for prior years, we might be forced to take a special charge to our earnings in the amount of the assessment. 9 The geographic concentration of our markets makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, our operations are currently concentrated in 22 counties in Indiana and three counties in Illinois. As a result of this geographic concentration in two fairly contiguous markets, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in one or both of these markets could result in one or more of the following: • an increase in loan delinquencies; • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; • a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and • a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. If we do not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, our financial performance may suffer. We face substantial competition for deposit, credit and trust relationships, as well as other sources of funding in the communities we serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, money market funds and other financial and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by our banks. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, it could adversely affect our financial performance and your investment in our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 