Item 1A. Risk Factors. While it is impossible to identify all such factors, the risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the Company’s business include the following: A reduction in research and development budgets at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may adversely affect our business. Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the products and services we provide. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries also affect our business. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our services and products less competitive or obsolete. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally and Contract Research ("CRO") services more specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenues and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. The CRO services industry is highly competitive. The CRO services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other CRO companies, but also with internal discovery and development departments within our clients, some of which are large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with greater resources than we have. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. The industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities much larger than ours. Increased competition might lead to price and other forms of competition that might adversely affect our operating results. As a result of competitive pressures, our industry experienced consolidation in recent years. This trend is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies for both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, there are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. Because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies such as us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of such personnel could adversely affect our business. Also, because of the nature of our business, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract, manage and retain technologically qualified personnel. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel, and an inability to recruit, manage or retain qualified personnel may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry. Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and operating results. Any failure on our part to comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This would harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. Furthermore, the issuance of a notice from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us of good clinical practice, good laboratory practice or good manufacturing practice requirements could materially and adversely affect us. Proposed and future legislation or regulations might increase the cost of our business or limit our service or product offerings. Federal or state authorities might adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. Changes in regulation could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services or products. 13 Our business uses biological and hazardous materials, which could injure people or violate laws, resulting in liability that could hurt our financial condition and business. Our activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our ability to pay. Any contamination or injury could also damage our reputation, which is critical to getting new business. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations is significant and if changes are made to impose additional requirements, these costs could increase and have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our customers’ contracts can be terminated upon short notice. Most of our contracts for CRO services are terminable by the client upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. Clients terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to: o products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; o products have undesired clinical results; o the client decides to forego a particular study; o inability to enroll enough patients in the study; o inability to recruit enough investigators; o production problems cause shortages of the drug; and o actions by regulatory authorities. The termination of one or more significant Contracts could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly or annual financial results. Our Products business depends on our intellectual property. Our products business is dependent, in part, on our ability to obtain patents in various jurisdictions on our current and future technologies and products, to defend our patents and protect our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance that the our patents will not be challenged by third parties or that, if challenged, those patents will be held valid. In addition, there can be no assurance that any technologies or products developed by us will not be challenged by third parties owning patent rights and, if challenged, will be held not to infringe on those patent rights. The expense involved in any patent litigation can be significant. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology, and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop or obtain similar products or technologies. We might incur substantial expense to develop products that are never successfully developed and commercialized. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial research and development and other expenses in connection with our products business. The potential products to which we devote resources might never be successfully developed or commercialized by us for numerous reasons, including: o inability to develop products that address our customers' needs; o competitive products with superior performance; o patent conflicts or unenforceable intellectual property rights; o demand for the particular product; and o other factors that could make the product uneconomical. 14 Incurring significant expenses for a potential product that is not successfully developed and/or commercialized could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and stock price. We dose human volunteers with new drug candidates in our clinical operations. Our clinical research services involes the introduction of experimental pharmaceutical compounds into consenting human volunteers during the studies of such compounds. This activity may expose us to liability as a result of adverse reactions of these volunteers to the compounds being tested. We seek to limit our risk through "hold harmless" provisions with the volunteers, obtaining indemnity from the sponsors, and by maintaining insurance. We bear the risk that these agreements may not protect us from liabilities, that our insurance may not be sufficient to cover our losses, and that such insurance may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Contract research services create a risk of liability. In certain circumstances, we seek to manage our liability risk through contractual provisions with clients requiring the Company to be indemnified by the client or covered by the clients’ product liability insurance policies. Although most of the Company’s clients are large, well-capitalized companies, the financial performance of these indemnities is not secured. Therefore, the Company bears the risk that the indemnifying party may not have the financial ability to fulfill its indemnification obligations or the liability would exceed the amount of applicable insurance. Furthermore, we could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services we perform. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate, or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that we can obtain indemnification arrangements or otherwise be able to limit its liability risk. If we are unable to attract suitable willing volunteers for our clinical trials, our clinical business might suffer. The clinical research studies we run in our Baltimore laboratory rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of volunteer subjects. Volunteer subjects generally include people from the communities in which the studies are conducted, including our Phase I clinic in Baltimore, Maryland, which to date has provided a substantial pool of potential subjects for research studies. Our clinical research development business could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing volunteers on a consistent basis. We may expand our business through acquisitions. We review many acquisition candidates and, in addition to acquisitions which we have already made, we are continually evaluating new acquisition opportunities. Factors which may affect our ability to grow successfully through acquisitions include: o difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits; o diversion of management's attention from current operations; o the possibility that we may be adversely affected by risk factors facing the acquired companies; o acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of our existing stockholders; o potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller; o loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical industry could change the need for the services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies comply with the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulation, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying, or that make our services less competitive, could substantially change the demand for our services. Also, if the government increases efforts to contain drug costs and pharmaceutical and biotechnology company profits from new drugs, our customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development. 15 Privacy regulations could increase our costs or limit our services. The US Department of Health and Human Services has issued regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). These regulations demand greater patient privacy and confidentiality. Some state governments are considering more stringent regulations. These regulations might require us to increase our investment in security or limit the services we offer. We could be found legally liable if we fail to meet existing or proposed regulation on privacy and security of health information. We might lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform. Numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with healthcare providers and drug companies. Healthcare reform could reduce demand for our services and products, and, as a result, our revenue. In the last several years, the U.S. Congress has reviewed several comprehensive health care reform proposals. The proposals are intended to expand healthcare coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total healthcare expenditures. The U.S. Congress has also considered and may adopt legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. Any such legislation could cause our customers to spend less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities for our business, which could reduce our earnings. Similarly, pending or future healthcare reform proposals outside the United States could negatively impact our revenues from our international operations. Reliance on air transportation. Our laboratories and certain of our other businesses are heavily reliant on air travel for transport of samples and other material, products and people, and a significant disruption to the air travel system, or our access to it, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have experienced periods of losses on our operating activities. Our overall strategy includes increasing revenue and reducing/controlling operating expenses. We have concentrated our efforts in ongoing, Company-wide efficiency activities intended to increase productivity and reduce costs including personnel reductions, reduction or elimination of non-personnel expenses and realigning and streamlining operations. We cannot assure that our efforts will result in increased profitability for any meaningful period of time. The outsourcing trend in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may decrease, which could slow our growth. Over the past several years, some areas of our businesses have grown significantly as a result of the increase in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies outsourcing their preclinical and clinical research support activities. We believe that due to the significant investment in facilities and personnel required to support drug development, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies look to outsource some or all of those services. By doing so, they can focus their resources on their core competency of drug discovery, while obtaining the outsourced services from a full-service provider like the Company. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue for the next several years, a decrease in preclinical and/or clinical outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of one or more of our expected higher-growth areas and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our customer contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a large contract or multiple contracts could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operations and financial results could be significantly affected by the above-mentioned risks. Our previous independent registered public accounting firm advised management and our audit committee that they identified material weaknesses in our internal controls and we have concluded that we had material weaknesses as of June 30, 2006. Our business and stock price may be adversely affected by these identified material weaknesses if we do not remediate them or if we have other material weaknesses in our internal controls. As we disclose in Part II, Item 9, “Controls and Procedures” of this Form 10-K, our management and previous independent accountants concluded that a material weakness existed in our internal controls as of June 30, 2006. The Company has instituted measures to address these risks. We believe these actions have addressed the weaknesses cited by our previous independent accountants. However, any failure to implement and maintain the improvements in the controls over our financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of these improvements in our controls, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to improve our internal controls to address the identified material weaknesses could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could harm our operations or results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. We cannot be certain that any steps we may take to improve our internal controls to address the identified material weaknesses will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 