Risk Factors CURRENTLY WE ARE UNABLE TO RECRUIT ENOUGH NURSES TO MEET OUR CLIENTS' DEMANDS FOR OUR NURSE STAFFING SERVICES, LIMITING THE POTENTIAL GROWTH OF OUR STAFFING BUSINESS. We rely substantially on our ability to attract, develop and retain nurses and other healthcare personnel who possess the skills, experience and, as required, licenses necessary to meet the specified requirements of our healthcare staffing clients. We compete for healthcare staffing personnel with other temporary healthcare staffing companies, as well as actual and potential clients, some of which seek to fill positions with either regular or temporary employees. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in most areas of the United States and competition for nursing personnel is increasing. Demand for temporary nurses over the last year has declined due to lower hospital emissions and nurses working full time for hospitals rather than working through temporary staffing agencies. Accordingly, when our clients request temporary nurse staffing we must recruit from a smaller pool of available nurses, which our competitors also recruit from. At this time we do not have enough nurses to meet our clients' demands for our nurse staffing services. This shortage has existed since approximately 2000. This shortage of nurses limits our ability to grow our staffing business. Furthermore, we believe that the aging of the existing nurse population and declining enrollments in nursing schools will further exacerbate the existing nurse shortage. To remedy the shortage we have increased advertising on our website and other industry visited websites to attract new nurses to work for us. We also offer a variety of benefits to our employees such as life insurance, medical and dental insurance, a 401 K plan, as well as sign-on bonuses for new employees and recruitment bonuses for current employees who refer new employees to us. In addition, we have recently started recruiting nurses from foreign countries, including India and the Philippines. 6 THE COSTS OF ATTRACTING AND RETAINING QUALIFIED NURSES AND OTHER HEALTHCARE PERSONNEL HAVE RISEN. We compete with other healthcare staffing companies for qualified nurses and other healthcare personnel. Because there is currently a shortage of qualified healthcare personnel, competition for these employees is intense. To induce healthcare personnel to sign on with them, our competitors have increased hourly wages and other benefits. In response to such increases by our competitors, we raised the wages and increased benefits that we offer to our personnel. Because we were not able to pass the additional costs to certain clients, our margins declined and we were forced to close 18 of our offices that could no longer operate profitably. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKET AND OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE IN OBTAINING AND RETAINING HOSPITAL AND HEALTHCARE FACILITY CLIENTS AND TEMPORARY HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS. The temporary medical staffing business is highly competitive. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service staffing companies and with specialized temporary staffing agencies. Some of these companies have greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Competition for hospital and healthcare facility clients and temporary healthcare professionals may increase in the future and, as a result, we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues or hospital and healthcare facility clients and our margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the price of our stock to decline. In addition, the development of alternative recruitment channels, such as direct recruitment and other channels not involving staffing companies, could lead our hospital and healthcare facility clients to bypass our services, which would also cause our revenues and margins to decline. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS UPON OUR CONTINUED ABILITY TO SECURE NEW ORDERS FROM OUR HOSPITAL AND HEALTHCARE FACILITY CLIENTS. We do not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with our hospital and healthcare facility clients. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Our hospital and healthcare facility clients are free to place orders with our competitors and may choose to use temporary healthcare professionals that our competitors offer. Therefore, we must maintain positive relationships with our hospital and healthcare facility clients. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with our hospital and healthcare facility clients, we may be unable to generate new temporary healthcare professional orders and our business may be adversely affected. DECREASES IN PATIENT OCCUPANCY AT OUR CLIENTS' FACILITIES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PROFITABILITY OF OUR BUSINESS. Demand for our temporary healthcare staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of patient occupancy at our clients' facilities. When a hospital's occupancy increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As occupancy decreases, clients may reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees. We also may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of occupancy downturn. In addition, if a trend emerges toward providing healthcare in alternative settings, as opposed to acute care hospitals, occupancy at our clients' facilities could decline. This reduction in occupancy could adversely affect the demand for our services and our profitability. 7 HEALTHCARE REFORM COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES, REVENUES AND MARGINS. The U.S. government has undertaken efforts to control increasing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. In the recent past, the U.S. Congress has considered several comprehensive healthcare reform proposals. Some of these proposals could have adversely affected our business. While the U.S. Congress has not adopted any comprehensive reform proposals, members of Congress may raise similar proposals in the future. If some of these proposals are approved, hospitals and other healthcare facilities may react by spending less on healthcare staffing, including nurses. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities, which could seriously harm our business. State governments have also attempted to control increasing healthcare costs. For example, the state of Massachusetts has recently implemented a regulation that limits the hourly rate payable to temporary nursing agencies for registered nurses, licensed practical nurses and certified nurses' aides. The state of Minnesota has also implemented a statute that limits the amount that nursing agencies may charge nursing homes. Other states have also proposed legislation that would limit the amounts that temporary staffing companies may charge. Any such current or proposed laws could seriously harm our business, revenues and margins. Furthermore, third party payors, such as health maintenance organizations, increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical care. Failure by hospitals and other healthcare facilities to obtain full reimbursement from those third party payors could reduce the demand for, or the price paid for our staffing services. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE PROPER FUNCTIONING OF OUR INFORMATION SYSTEMS. Our Company is dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments and perform billing and accounts receivable functions. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and we have backup remote processing capabilities. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. In the event that critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably and to bill for services efficiently. WE MAY BE LEGALLY LIABLE FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM OUR HOSPITAL AND HEALTHCARE FACILITY CLIENTS' MISTREATMENT OF OUR HEALTHCARE PERSONNEL. Because we are in the business of placing our temporary healthcare professionals in the workplaces of other companies, we are subject to possible claims by our temporary healthcare professionals alleging discrimination, sexual harassment, negligence and other similar injuries caused by our hospital and healthcare facility clients. The cost of defending such claims, even if groundless, could be substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals in the future. IF STATE LICENSING REGULATIONS THAT APPLY TO US CHANGE, WE MAY FACE INCREASED COSTS THAT REDUCE OUR REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY. In some states, firms in the temporary healthcare staffing industry must be registered to establish and advertise as a nurse staffing agency or must qualify for an exemption from registration in those states. If we were to lose any required state licenses, we would be required to cease operating in those states. The introduction of new licensing regulations could substantially raise the costs associated with hiring temporary employees. These increased costs may not be able to be passed on to clients without a decrease in demand for temporary employees, which would reduce our revenue and profitability. 8 FUTURE CHANGES IN REIMBURSEMENT TRENDS COULD HAMPER OUR CLIENTS' ABILITY TO PAY US. Many of our clients are reimbursed under the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. No portion of our revenue is directly derived from Medicare and Medicaid programs. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in these programs that have reduced reimbursement rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Future federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce, or change conditions for, our clients' reimbursement. Limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients' cash flows, hampering their ability to pay us. COMPETITION FOR ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES MAY RESTRICT OUR FUTURE GROWTH BY LIMITING OUR ABILITY TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS AT REASONABLE VALUATIONS. Our business strategy includes increasing our market share and presence in the temporary healthcare staffing industry through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. Between March 2001 and February 2003, we acquired nine unaffiliated companies. These companies had an aggregate of approximately $11.8 million in revenue at the time they were purchased. We have not completed any acquisitions since February 2003. We have historically faced competition for acquisitions. While to date such competition has not affected our growth and expansion, in the future such competition could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less attractive to us. WE MAY FACE DIFFICULTIES INTEGRATING OUR ACQUISITIONS INTO OUR OPERATIONS AND OUR ACQUISITIONS MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL, INVOLVE SIGNIFICANT CASH EXPENDITURES OR EXPOSE US TO UNFORESEEN LIABILITIES. We continually evaluate opportunities to acquire healthcare staffing companies and other human capital management services companies that complement or enhance our business. From time to time, we engage in strategic acquisitions of such companies or their assets. While to date, we have generally not experienced problems, these acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: o potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; o difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business; o difficulties integrating acquired companies into our operating, financial planning and financial reporting systems; o diversion of management attention from existing operations; and o assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for their failure to comply with healthcare regulations. These acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence and integration expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Further, our revolving loan agreement with HFG Healthco-4 LLC requires that we obtain the written consent of HFG Healthco-4 LLC before engaging in any investing activities not in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to any mergers, consolidations and acquisitions. The restrictive covenants of the revolving loan agreement with HFG Healthco-4 LLC may make it difficult for us to expand our operations through acquisitions and other investments if we are unable to obtain their consent. 9 Our January 2002 acquisition for $30.2 million of our AllCare Nursing business did not produce the results we anticipated, resulting in our decision to sell that business. In April 2005 we sold the AllCare Nursing business for approximately $20.0 million. In addition, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment of $3.8 million as of February 28, 2005. For a discussion of the benefits we derived from the sale see " Recent Acquisitions and Dispositions" above. SIGNIFICANT LEGAL ACTIONS COULD SUBJECT US TO SUBSTANTIAL UNINSURED LIABILITIES. We may be subject to claims related to torts or crimes committed by our employees or temporary staffing personnel. Such claims could involve large claims and significant defense costs. In some instances, we are required to indemnify clients against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks, relevant client policies and guidelines or applicable federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. To protect ourselves from the cost of these claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial results. IF OUR INSURANCE COSTS INCREASE SIGNIFICANTLY, THESE INCREMENTAL COSTS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. The costs related to obtaining and maintaining workers compensation, professional and general liability insurance and health insurance for healthcare providers has been increasing as a percentage of revenue. Our cost of workers compensation, professional and general liability and health insurance for healthcare providers for the fiscal years ending February 28, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $2.1 million, $1.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively. The corresponding gross margin for the same time periods were 23.5%, 19.4% and 22.2%, respectively. If the cost of carrying this insurance continues to increase significantly, we will recognize an associated increase in costs that may negatively affect our margins. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and the price of our common stock. IF WE BECOME SUBJECT TO MATERIAL LIABILITIES UNDER OUR SELF-INSURED PROGRAMS, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Except for a few states that require workers compensation through their state fund, we provide workers compensation coverage through a program that is partially self-insured. Zurich Insurance Company provides specific excess reinsurance of $300,000 per occurrence as well as aggregate coverage for overall claims borne by the group of companies that participate in the program. The program also provides for risk sharing among members for infrequent, large claims over $100,000. If we become subject to substantial uninsured workers compensation liabilities, our financial results may be adversely affected. 10 WE HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF GOODWILL ON OUR BALANCE SHEET. A SUBSTANTIAL IMPAIRMENT OF OUR GOODWILL MAY HAVE THE EFFECT OF DECREASING OUR EARNINGS OR INCREASING OUR LOSSES. As of February 28, 2006, we had $5.4 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. The goodwill represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At February 28, 2006, goodwill represented 21% of our total assets. Historically, we amortized goodwill on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of future benefit of up to 15 years. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, as well as all purchase method business combinations completed after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 142 requires that, beginning on March 1, 2002, goodwill not be amortized, but rather that it be reviewed annually for impairment. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. We have adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No. 142 as of March 1, 2002. Although it does not affect our cash flow, an impairment charge to earnings has the effect of decreasing our earnings. If we are required to take a charge to earnings for goodwill impairment, our stock price could be adversely affected. DEMAND FOR MEDICAL STAFFING SERVICES IS SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY THE GENERAL LEVEL OF ECONOMIC ACTIVITY AND UNEMPLOYMENT IN THE UNITED STATES. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. However, as economic activity slows, many companies, including our hospital and healthcare facility clients, reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees. In addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. Therefore, any significant economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our condition and results of operations. OUR ABILITY TO BORROW UNDER OUR CREDIT FACILITY MAY BE LIMITED. We have an asset-based revolving credit line with HFG Healthco-4 LLC that currently has a maximum borrowing amount of $15.0 million. As of February 28, 2006 and February 28, 2005 we had approximately $10.5 million and $18.8 million, respectively, outstanding under the revolving credit line (of which $9.2 million was reflected in assets held for sale at February 28, 2005) with HFG Healthco-4 LLC with additional borrowing capacity of $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively. On April 22, 2005 we sold our AllCare Nursing business and applied approximately $13.0 million of the proceeds to repayment of our credit line. In connection with the transaction, the credit line was extended until April 2008. At that time approximately $7.1 million was outstanding and we had additional borrowing capacity of $1.8 million. Our ability to borrow under the credit facility is based upon, and thereby limited by, the amount of our accounts receivable. Any material decline in our service revenues could reduce our borrowing base, which could cause us to lose our ability to borrow additional amounts under the credit facility. In such circumstances, the borrowing availability under the credit facility may not be sufficient for our capital needs. THE POSSIBLE INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN LICENSEES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Maintaining quality licensees, managers and branch administrators will play a significant part in our future success. The possible inability to attract and retain qualified licensees, skilled management and sufficient numbers of credentialed health care professional and para-professionals and information technology personnel could adversely affect our operations and quality of service. Also, because the travel nurse program is dependent upon the attraction of skilled nurses from overseas, such program could be adversely affected by immigration restrictions limiting the number of such skilled personnel who may enter and remain in the United States. 11 OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE CONTINUING SERVICE OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT. IF ANY MEMBER OF OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT WERE TO LEAVE, THIS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. Changes in management could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the active participation of Messrs. David Savitsky, our Chief Executive Officer, and Stephen Savitsky, our President. We have entered into employment agreement with both of these individuals. While no member of our senior management has any plans to retire or leave our company in the near future, the failure to retain our current management could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. We do not maintain any key life insurance policies for any of our executive officers or other personnel. OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS, AS AMENDED, CONTAIN CERTAIN PROVISIONS THAT MAY PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY IN SITUATIONS WHEN SUCH A CHANGE IN CONTROL WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our By-laws provide for a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms for directorships. Our By-laws also allow the Board of Directors to increase Board membership without shareholder approval. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock outstanding, vacancies on the Board of Directors, including new vacancies created by an increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors without shareholder approval. Further, subject to the rights of holders of any series of preferred stock outstanding, directors may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. In addition, our By-laws may be amended or repealed or new By-laws may be adopted by the Board without shareholder approval and our shareholders may amend, repeal or adopt new By-laws only upon the affirmative vote of 80% of the voting power of all of the shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. Each of these provisions may allow our Board of Directors to entrench the current members and may prevent a change in control of our company in situations when such a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, these provisions of our By-laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and on the market price of our common stock. 