Item 1A Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider all of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the risks described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or those we currently deem immaterial may impair our business operations in the future. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed and you may lose part or all of your investment. If we fail to meet our financial and other covenants under our loan agreement with Textron Financial Corporation, absent a waiver, we will be in default of the loan agreement and Textron Financial Corporation can take actions that would adversely affect our business. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants in our loan agreement. In the event we are unable to comply with these covenants during future periods, it is uncertain whether Textron Financial Corporation will grant waivers for our non-compliance. If there is an event of default by us under the loan agreement, Textron Financial Corporation has the option to, among other things, accelerate any and all of our obligations under the loan agreement, take possession of all of our assets securing the loan agreement, or obtain the appointment of a receiver, trustee or similar official over us to effect all of the transactions contemplated by or otherwise necessary to perform the loan agreement and any of these actions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if an event of default has occurred and while the event of default continues, our interest rate will be significantly increased which could adversely affect our financial condition. We experienced losses from continuing operations in the past four fiscal years, and continued losses may negatively impact our financial position and value of our common stock. We incurred a loss from continuing operations in the past four fiscal years. We incurred a loss from continuing operations of $2.5 million and $2.4 million in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. The primary reasons for the loss from continuing operations in fiscal 2008 were an accounting charge for inventory obsolescence ($1.2 million), costs associated with the settlement of litigation ($411,000), costs incurred due to the abandonment of an acquisition opportunity and the loss of a large enterprise maintenance contract with an aeronautical company. As we focus on our core business, there are no assurances that our cost containment efforts will be successful in curbing expenses or that we will be able to accurately estimate start-up costs and expenses associated with new contracts. If we incur expenses at a greater pace than our revenues, we could incur additional losses. If we continue to experience losses, our financial position could be negatively impacted and the value of our common stock may decline. 5 The loss from continuing operations incurred in fiscal year 2007 was due to the selling our secure network services business, which resulted in the loss of sufficient gross margin to cover the fixed cost of the remaining business in those years. Our revenues are derived from a few major customers, the loss of any of which could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected. We have a number of major customers. Our largest customer, IBM, accounted for 31%, and 29% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Including IBM, our five largest customers collectively accounted for 60% of revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future, although the companies which constitute our largest customers may change from period to period. Factors beyond our control, including political, state and federal budget issues, competitor prices and other factors may have an impact on our ability to retain contracts. The loss of any one or more of these customers may adversely affect our results of operations. If we experience a decline in cash flow or are unable to maintain compliance with the covenants and representations contained in our loan agreement, our ability to operate could be adversely affected. If either cash flow from operations declines or borrowings under our loan agreement are insufficient to meet our needs, our ability to operate could be adversely affected. In addition, the loss of a significant contract, adverse economic conditions or other adverse circumstances may cause our capital resources to change dramatically. Operating results may also be negatively affected due to costs associated with starting a major contract. Many costs associated with starting a new contract, such as hiring additional personnel, training, travel and logistics are expensed as incurred and may also significantly impact cash flow during the startup period. Additional funds, if needed, to help fund start-up costs related to a major new contract may not be available. We view our new loan agreement with Textron Financial Corporation as a critical source of available liquidity. This loan agreement contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We were not in compliance with the terms of our old revolving credit facility with Provident Bank at March 31, 2008. We requested and obtained a waiver from Provident Bank for the non-compliance with the financial covenants as of March 31, 2008. There is no assurance that we will be in compliance with the conditions, covenants and representations contained in the loan agreement or that the Textron Financial Corporation will grant waivers for future non-compliance, if any. We operate in a highly competitive market. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our business may be adversely affected. We have numerous competitors in our marketplace. Some competitors are large diversified firms having substantially greater financial resources and a larger technical staff than us, including, in some cases, the manufacturers of the systems being supported, and others are small companies within a regional market or market niche. Customer in-house capabilities can also create competition in that they perform certain services which might otherwise be performed by us. It is not possible to predict the extent of competition which our present or future activities will encounter because of changing competitive conditions, customer requirements, technological developments and other factors. The industry in which we operate has been characterized by rapid technological advances that have resulted in frequent introductions of new products, product enhancements and aggressive pricing practices, which also impacts pricing of service activities. We continue to see significant price competition and customer demand for higher service attainment levels. In addition, there is significant price competition in the market for state and local government contracts as a result of budget issues, political pressure and other factors beyond our control. As experienced with losses of some of our contracts, high quality and longevity of service may have little influence in the customer decision making process. Also, our operating results could be adversely impacted should we be unable to achieve the revenues growth necessary to provide profitable operating margins in various operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected because of pricing pressures brought about by competition, proprietary technology that we are unable to support, presence of competitors with greater financial and other resources or other factors beyond our control. 6 Our revenues and results of operations may vary period to period, which may cause the common stock price to fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, which could cause the common stock price to fluctuate greatly. Factors that may affect our quarterly and annual results include but are not limited to: • changes in economic conditions; • disruptions or downturns in general economic activity resulting from terrorist activity and armed conflict; • competitive pricing pressure; • lengthening sales cycles; • obsolescence of technology; • increases in prices of components used to support our enterprise maintenance solutions; • loss of material contracts; and • the success of our business strategy in providing improved operating results. Unfavorable economic conditions, increases in reserves for inventory obsolescence, the charges for litigation settlement, transaction expenses and the loss of a large enterprise maintenance contract have adversely affected our results of operations and led to a decline in our growth rates. Our business was also negatively affected by the economic slowdown and reductions in spending by our customers in 2008 and 2007. The rate at which the portions of our industry improve is critical to our overall performance. Many of our services are sold as part of a larger technology outsourcing solution. In the past, we have experienced historical growth in our business as we have assumed responsibility for maintaining our customers IT infrastructure. The demand for these services has been adversely affected by the effects of a weakened economy in recent periods with many businesses focusing on cost containment strategies and eliminating or curtailing maintenance. We depend on recurring long-term contracts for services from a limited number of large original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, partners and end users. Our agreements with OEMs are in the form of master service agreements and are typically cancelable, non-exclusive and have no minimum purchase requirements. Factors beyond our control, including political, state and federal budget issues, price and other factors may have an impact on our ability to successfully retain contracts. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues, we may have to further down size. For the fiscal ended March 31, 2008, revenues decreased to $43.9 million from $50.7 million in fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Gross margin was $3.7 million and $4.4 million for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. If we are unable to generate sufficient new business, we may be forced to consolidate our operations to reduce operating expenses sufficiently to achieve profitable operations. There can be no assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient new business or that our cost containment measures in place will provide us the ability to attain profits in the future. If we are unable to retain and attract highly qualified personnel to fulfill our contract obligations, our business may be harmed. Our most important resource is our employees. Although many of our personnel are highly specialized, we have not experienced material difficulties obtaining the personnel required to perform under our contracts and generally do not bid on contracts where difficulty may be encountered in providing these necessary services. However, there can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties in the future obtaining the personnel necessary to fulfill our obligations under our contracts. 7 We are subject to risks related to fluctuations in interest rates. We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily as a result of using borrowed funds to finance our business. The floating interest debt exposes us to interest rate risk, with the primary interest rate exposure resulting from changes in the prime rate. Adverse changes in the interest rates or our inability to refinance our long-term obligations may have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. A one percent change in our interest rates would impact out interest expense by approximately $40,000. We incur significant costs in connection with the start-up of new contracts before receiving related revenues, which could result in cash shortfalls and fluctuations in quarterly results from period to period. When we are awarded a contract to provide services, we may incur expenses before we receive any contract payments. These expenses include purchasing equipment and hiring personnel. For example, contracts may not fund program start-up costs and we may be required to invest significant sums of money before receiving related contract payments. Additionally, any resulting cash shortfall could be exacerbated if we fail to either invoice the customer or to collect fees in a timely manner. A cash shortfall could result in significant consequences. For example, it: • could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • will require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our indebtedness; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs and other general corporate requirements; • could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors; and • could limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. As a result, there are no assurances that additional funds, if needed, to help fund start-up costs related to a major new contract would be available or, if available, on terms advantageous to us. Some of our contracts contain fixed-price provisions that could result in decreased profits if we fail to accurately estimate our costs. Some of our contracts contain pricing provisions that require the payment of a set fee by the customer for our services regardless of the costs we incur in performing these services. In such situations, we are exposed to the risk that we will incur significant unforeseen costs in performing the contract. Therefore, the financial success of a fixed-price contract is dependent upon the accuracy of our cost estimates made during contract negotiations. Prior to bidding on a fixed-price contract, we attempt to factor in variables including equipment costs, labor and related expenses over the term of the contract. However, it is difficult to predict future costs, especially for contract terms that range from 3 to 5 years. Any shortfalls resulting from the risks associated with fixed-price contracts will reduce our working capital and profitability. Our inability to accurately estimate the cost of providing services under these contracts could have an adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently manage our costs, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have taken, and continue to take, cost reduction actions. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost reduction actions may in turn expose us to additional service delivery risks and have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. We have been reducing costs and streamlining our business process throughout our organization. We have reduced our physical facilities, reduced our employee population, improved our repair facilities, and reduced other costs. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our revenues and profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not limited to: 8 • our ability to complete these on-going efforts, • our ability to generate the level of savings we expect and/or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete, • decrease in employee personnel, • ability to generate sufficient revenue and or reduce operating expenses to offset the contribution margins from aeronautical company that was terminated on November 30, 2007, and • the performance of other parties under arrangements on which we rely to support parts or components. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, comply with the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our common stock, our ability to retain our current customers or obtain new customers and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010, the registered public accounting firm’s attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting. As of March 31, 2008, we completed the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This evaluation was based upon the framework in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework” published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The evaluation including an assessment of the design of our internal controls over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management reviewed the results of their evaluation with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and determined that as of March 31, 2008 there were two material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. As defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2, a material weakness is a significant control deficiency or combination of significant control deficiencies that results in there being more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not prevented or detected. As previously reported in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, as of March 31, 2007, we noted a material weakness at March 31, 2008 related to income tax reporting as a result of the lack of qualified personnel to properly review and administer the Company’s tax matters. In addition, at March 31, 2008, we have one individual that has dual responsibility for financial statements as well as for the Company’s Information Systems. As a result the Company lacks the appropriate level of separation of duties as that individual has the ability to update and modify these information systems. Such material weaknesses were identified, and because management considers its internal controls over financial reporting and controls over the separation of duties to prevent inappropriate activity to intersect with its disclosure controls, the Company’s CEO and CFO concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2008 in reaching a reasonable level of assurance that (i) information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and (ii) information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 9 We have received a deficiency notice from the American Stock Exchange, or AMEX, and if we are unable to satisfy AMEX that we will regain compliance with its continued listing criteria, our common stock may be delisted from AMEX, which could adversely affect investor perception and may result in institutional and other investors refraining from purchasing our common stock which would adversely affect your ability and our ability to sell our common stock. We have received a deficiency letter from AMEX, dated March 17, 2008, advising us that, we do not meet certain of the American Stock Exchange’s continued listing standards as set forth in Part 10 of the Amex Company Guide. Specifically, we are not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide because our stockholders’ equity is less than $4.0 million and we have had losses from continuing operations and/or a net loss in three out of four of its most recent fiscal years. In order to maintain our current listing, we submitted a compliance plan on April 14, 2008 advising of the actions we planned to take to regain compliance with AMEX’s continued listing standards. This plan was approved by AMEX on Mary 15, 2008, and AMEX granted us a conditional trading extension until September 14, 2009 to regain compliance with their continued listing standards. We will be subject to periodic review by AMEX during the extension period granted by AMEX. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan we submitted to AMEX or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the extension period could result in our common stock being delisted from AMEX. In the event our common stock is delisted from AMEX, we would apply to have our common stock listed on the over-the-counter bulletin board; however, certain institutional investors have policies against investments in bulletin board companies and other investors may refrain from purchasing our common stock if they are not listed on a national securities exchange. Also, we would lose some of our existing analyst coverage and our efforts to obtain new analyst coverage would be significantly impaired. Further, our ability to sell our equity securities and debt would be significantly limited in numerous states because the exemption we utilize to sell these securities without registration under applicable state securities laws requires that our common stock be listed on an exchange. If we were required to register our equity securities or debt offerings under the securities laws of various states, no assurance will be given as to whether we would be able to obtain the necessary approvals from states’ securities administrators. To the extent our common stock were to be delisted from trading on AMEX, the value of our equity securities and our ability to sell equity securities and debt would be negatively impacted. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to repay our outstanding debt and other obligations. Additionally, if we are delisted from AMEX, and the price of our common stock does not increase significantly, our common stock would be a “low-priced” security under the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document that describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer’s duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions may decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, decrease liquidity of our common stock and increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent abuses normally associated with “low-priced” securities from being established with respect to our securities. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock during fiscal 2008 or fiscal 2007 and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our loan agreement currently prohibits the payment of dividends. 10 Shareholders of our common stock may face a lack of liquidity. Although our common stock is currently traded on the American Stock Exchange, given the fact that our common stock is thinly traded, there can be no assurance that the desirable characteristics of an active trading market for such securities will ever develop or be maintained. Therefore, each investor’s ability to control the timing of the liquidation of the investment in our common stock will be restricted and an investor may be required to retain investment in our common stock indefinitely. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want to and at prices they find attractive. Our share price has been volatile due, in part, to the general volatile securities market. Factors other than our operating results may affect our share price, including the level of perceived growth of the industries in which we participate, market expectations of our performance success of the partners, and the sale or purchase of large amounts of our common stock. Provisions in our corporate charter documents could delay or prevent a change in control. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and Bylaws contain certain provisions that would make a takeover of our company more difficult. Under our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, we have authorized 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock, which the Board of Directors may issue with terms, rights, preferences and designations as the Board of Directors may determine and without the vote of shareholders, unless otherwise required by law. Currently, there are no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. Issuing the preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and designations set by the Board of Directors, may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of us. Issuing additional shares of common stock could result in a dilution of the voting power of the current holders of the common stock. This may tend to perpetuate existing management and place it in a better position to resist changes that the shareholders may want to make if dissatisfied with the conduct of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 