ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition, or future results of operations. Although the risks described below are those that management believes are the most significant, these are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem to be material also may materially affect our business, financial condition, or future results of operations. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time in other reports we file with the SEC. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic downturn. We are engaged in various financial services businesses. As such, we are affected by economic and political conditions. These conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors that may be detrimental to our operating results, including the inflation rate, the related impact on the securities markets, including changes in volume and price levels of securities, fluctuations in interest rates, reduced investor confidence, and a slowdown in economic activity. These conditions historically have impacted our trading volume and net revenues and affected our profitability. Additionally, a decline in the strength of the U.S. economy can lead to deterioration in credit quality and decreased loan demand. Continued or further credit dislocations or sustained market downturns may result in a decrease in the volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in the value of securities we hold in inventory as assets, and potentially reduced investment banking revenues, given that associated fees are directly related to the number and size of transactions in which we participate. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from commissions, margin interest revenue, principal transactions, asset management and service fees, and investment banking fees. Accordingly, severe market fluctuations, weak economic conditions, or a decline in stock prices, trading volumes, or liquidity could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Continued or further credit dislocations or sustained market downturns may result in a decrease in the volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in the value of securities we hold in inventory as assets, and reduced investment banking revenues. Declines in the market value of securities generally result in a decline in revenues from fees based on the asset values of client portfolios and may result in the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations, as well as the failure of our clients to fulfill their credit and settlement obligations. Also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. During periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client accounts margin purchases may drop below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. If the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these loans, we may lose money on these margin transactions. This may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. In addition, in certain transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure our obligations to our counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering our assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that a counterparty was holding collateral in excess of our obligation to such counterparty. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory actions, and any such future actions, to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price. Recent market and economic conditions have led to new legislation and numerous proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the United States and abroad. The Dodd-Frank Act calls for sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide for greater protections to individual consumers and investors. Certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately, though the details of many provisions are subject to additional studies and will not be known until final rules are adopted by applicable regulatory agencies. The ultimate impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us, the financial industry, and the economy cannot be known until all such rules and regulations called for under the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized. 15 Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies, and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. Other regulatory changes and proposed changes concerning municipal securities and the issuance of public debt may adversely impact our business. These initiatives include changes to existing 'pay to play' rules for brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers; expansion of disclosure, suitability and pricing obligations for brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers; and changes in the definition of, and registration requirements for, municipal advisers. A number of changes have been proposed to the rules and regulations that govern our securities business, and other rules and regulations have been adopted, which may result in changes in the way in which we conduct our business. These legislative and regulatory initiatives could require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, limit the products that we offer, result in a loss of revenue, limit our competitiveness or our ability to pursue business opportunities, cause business disruptions, impact the value of assets that we hold, or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The long-term impact of these initiatives on our business practices and revenues will depend upon the successful implementation of our strategies and competitors' responses to such initiatives, all of which are difficult to predict. Lack of sufficient liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. If we have insufficient liquid assets, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. Our assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets readily convertible into cash, are our principal source of liquidity. These assets are financed primarily by our equity capital, debentures to trusts, client credit balances, short-term bank loans, proceeds from securities lending, customer deposits, and other payables. We currently finance our client accounts and firm trading positions through ordinary course borrowings at floating interest rates from various banks on a demand basis and securities lending, with company-owned and client securities pledged as collateral. Changes in securities market volumes, related client borrowing demands, underwriting activity, and levels of securities inventory affect the amount of our financing requirements. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption since early 2008, and reached unprecedented levels during the first quarter of 2009. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. Despite recent improvements in market conditions, if market disruption and volatility return to the unprecedented levels reached in early 2009 or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material to our business, financial condition, and results of operations and affect our ability to access capital. Our liquidity requirements may change in the event we need to raise more funds than anticipated to increase inventory positions, support more rapid expansion, develop new or enhanced services and products, acquire technologies, or respond to other unanticipated liquidity requirements. We rely exclusively on financing activities and distributions from our subsidiaries for funds to implement our business and growth strategies. Net capital rules or the borrowing arrangements of our subsidiaries, as well as the earnings, financial condition, and cash requirements of our subsidiaries, may each limit distributions to us from our subsidiaries. In the event existing internal and external financial resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional outside financing. The availability of outside financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, credit ratings, and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects if we incurred large trading losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn or otherwise. We currently do not have a credit rating, which could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position by increasing our borrowing costs and limiting access to sources of liquidity that require a credit rating as a condition to providing funds. 16 Current trends in the global financial markets could cause significant fluctuations in our stock price. Stock markets in general, and stock prices of financial services firms in particular, including us, have in recent years, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations which may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and increased volatility could result in an overall decline in the market price of our common stock. Factors that could significantly impact the volatility of our stock price include: developments in our business or in the financial sector generally, including the effect of direct governmental action in the financial markets generally and with respect to financial institutions in particular; regulatory changes affecting our operations; the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, and other material events by us or our competitors; and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity or asset valuations, or volatility. Significant declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price of our common stock to increase could harm our ability to recruit and retain key employees, including our executives and financial advisors and other key professional employees and those who have joined us from companies we have acquired, reduce our access to debt or equity capital, and otherwise harm our business or financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to use our common stock effectively as consideration in connection with future acquisitions. We face intense competition in our industry. All aspects of our business and of the financial services industry in general are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. Our business will suffer if we do not compete successfully. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our personnel, the quality and selection of our investment products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), and reputation. Because of market unrest and increased government intervention, the financial services industry has recently undergone significant consolidation, which has further concentrated equity capital and other financial resources in the industry and further increased competition. Many of our competitors use their significantly greater financial capital and scope of operations to offer their customers more products and services, broader research capabilities, access to international markets, and other products and services not currently offered by us. We compete directly with national full-service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. In addition, we face competition from new entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. Domestic commercial banks and investment banking boutique firms have entered the broker-dealer business, and large international banks have begun serving our markets as well. Legislative and regulatory initiatives intended to ease restrictions on the sale of securities and underwriting activities by commercial banks have increased competition. We also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms, hedge funds, and others. This increased competition could cause our business to suffer. The industry of electronic and/or discount brokerage services is continuing to develop. Increased competition from firms using new technology to deliver these products and services may materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Competitors offering internet-based or other electronic brokerage services may have lower costs and offer their customers more attractive pricing and more convenient services than we do. In addition, we anticipate additional competition from underwriters who conduct offerings of securities through electronic distribution channels, bypassing financial intermediaries such as us altogether. These and other competitive pressures may have an adverse effect on our competitive position and, as a result, our operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Regulatory and legal developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. We could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanctions, including revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines, or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business if we violate such laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and prospects. Moreover, our independent contractor subsidiaries, CSA and SN Ltd, give rise to a potentially higher risk of noncompliance because of the nature of the independent contractor relationships involved. 17 As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. Stifel Bank is subject to regulation by the FDIC. As a result, we are subject to a risk of loss resulting from failure to comply with banking laws. The recent economic and political environment has caused regulators to increase their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry, including introducing proposals for new legislation. We are unable to predict whether any of these proposals will be implemented and in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. For additional information regarding our regulatory environment and our approach to managing regulatory risk, see Item 1, "Business - Regulation," and Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Our company and its subsidiaries are named in and subject to various proceedings and claims arising primarily from our securities business activities, including lawsuits, arbitration claims, class actions, and regulatory matters. Some of these claims seek substantial compensatory, punitive, or indeterminate damages. Our company and its subsidiaries are also involved in other reviews, investigations, and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations regarding our business, which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, and other relief. The regulatory investigations include inquiries from the SEC, FINRA, and several state regulatory authorities requesting information concerning our activities with respect to auction rate securities ("ARS") and in connection with certain investments made by other post-employment benefit ("OPEB") trusts formed by five Southwestern Wisconsin school districts. In turbulent economic times such as these, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have historically increased. These risks include potential liability under securities and other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives, and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. Legal actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, or other results, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations, or cause us serious reputational harm. For a discussion of our legal matters, including ARS and OPEB litigation, and our approach to managing legal risk, see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements would significantly harm our business. The SEC requires broker-dealers to maintain adequate regulatory capital in relation to their liabilities and the size of their customer business. These rules require Stifel Nicolaus, TWP, and CSA, our broker-dealer subsidiaries, to maintain a substantial portion of their assets in cash or highly liquid investments. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject our broker-dealer subsidiaries to limitations on their activities, or in extreme cases, suspension or revocation of their registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other regulatory bodies, and, ultimately, liquidation. Our European subsidiaries, SN Ltd and TWPIL, are subject to similar limitations under applicable laws in the United Kingdom. Our Canadian subsidiary, SN Canada, is subject to the regulatory supervision and requirements of the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada ("IIROC"). Failure to comply with the net capital rules could have material and adverse consequences, such as: limiting our operations that require intensive use of capital, such as underwriting or trading activities; or restricting us from withdrawing capital from our subsidiaries, even where our broker-dealer subsidiaries have more than the minimum amount of required capital. This, in turn, could limit our ability to implement our business and growth strategies, pay interest on and repay the principal of our debt, and/or repurchase our shares. In addition, a change in the net capital rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation, or amount of net capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any large charge against net capital, could have similar adverse effects. In addition, as a bank holding company, we and our bank subsidiary are subject to various regulatory requirements administered by the federal banking agencies, including capital adequacy requirements pursuant to which we and our bank subsidiary must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. See Item 1, "Business - Regulation," for additional information regarding our regulatory environment. 18 We have experienced significant pricing pressure in areas of our business, which may impair our revenues and profitability. In recent years, our business has experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. The trend towards using alternative trading systems is continuing to grow, which may result in decreased commission and trading revenue, reduce our participation in the trading markets and our ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. Institutional clients also have pressured financial services firms to alter "soft dollar" practices under which brokerage firms bundle the cost of trade execution with research products and services. Some institutions are entering into arrangements that separate (or "unbundle") payments for research products or services from sales commissions. These arrangements have increased the competitive pressures on sales commissions and have affected the value our clients place on high-quality research. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of our business. Moreover, our inability to reach agreement regarding the terms of unbundling arrangements with institutional clients who are actively seeking such arrangements could result in the loss of those clients, which would likely reduce our institutional commissions. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions, or margins. Our underwriting and market-making activities place our capital at risk. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. As a market maker, we may own large positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. Our ability to attract, develop, and retain highly skilled and productive employees is critical to the success of our business. Our people are our most valuable asset. Our ability to develop and retain our client base and to obtain investment banking and advisory engagements depends upon the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities, and project execution skills of highly skilled and often highly specialized employees, including our executive officers. The unexpected loss of services of any of these key employees and executive officers, or the inability to recruit and retain highly qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Financial advisors typically take their clients with them when they leave us to work for a competitor. From time to time, in addition to financial advisors, we have lost equity research, investment banking, public finance, institutional sales and trading professionals, and in some cases, clients, to our competitors. Competition for personnel within the financial services industry is intense. The cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably, as competition for these professionals has intensified. Employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. These can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. As competition for skilled professionals in the industry increases, we may have to devote more significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. In particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the amortization costs incurred by us in connection with the upfront loans we offer to financial advisors. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We are currently subject to several such claims and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. 19 We may recruit financial advisors, make strategic acquisitions of businesses, or divest or exit existing businesses, which could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could have disruptive effects on our business and may strain our resources. Our growth strategies have included, and will continue to include, the recruitment of financial advisors and strategic acquisitions. Over the last few years, we have completed several significant acquisitions. These acquisitions or any acquisition that we determine to pursue will be accompanied by a number of risks. The growth of our business and expansion of our client base have strained, and may continue to strain, our management and administrative resources. Costs or difficulties relating to such transactions, including integration of financial advisors and other employees, products and services, technology systems, accounting systems, and management controls, may be greater than expected. Unless offset by a growth of revenues, the costs associated with these investments will reduce our operating margins. In addition, because, as noted above, financial professionals typically take their clients with them when they leave, if key employees or other senior management personnel of the businesses we have acquired determine that they do not wish to remain with our company over the long term or at all, we would not inherit portions of the client base of those businesses, which would reduce the value of those acquisitions to us. In addition to past growth, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to manage our future growth successfully. The inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. After we announce or complete any given acquisition in the future, our share price could decline if investors view the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. We may be unable to retain key personnel after any such transaction, and the transaction may impair relationships with customers and business partners. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, increase our expenses, and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits and synergies from any such transaction as fully as expected or within the expected time frame. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or products could have similar effects. Moreover, to the extent we pursue increased expansion to different geographic markets or grow generally through additional strategic acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will identify suitable acquisition candidates, that acquisitions will be completed on acceptable terms, or that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. Such acquisitions could be of significant size and involve firms located in regions of the United States where we do not currently operate, or internationally. To acquire and integrate a separate organization would further divert management attention from other business activities. This diversion, together with other difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we may need to borrow money to finance acquisitions, which would increase our leverage. Such funds might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowing terms or at all. The rapid growth of Stifel Bank may expose us to increased operational risk, credit risk, and sensitivity to market interest rates along with increased regulation, examinations, and supervision by regulators. We have experienced rapid growth in the balance sheet of Stifel Bank. The increase is primarily attributable to the growth in securities-based loans and deposits as a result of the UBS Acquired Locations acquisition. Although our stock-secured loans are collateralized by assets held in brokerage accounts, we are exposed to some credit and operational risk associated with these loans. We describe some of the integration-related operational risks associated with our recent acquisitions above, which includes many of the same risks related to the growth of Stifel Bank. With the increase in deposits and resulting liquidity, we have been able to expand our investment portfolio, primarily with government agency securities. In addition, Stifel Bank has significantly grown its mortgage banking business. Although we believe we have adequate underwriting policies in place, there are inherent risks associated with the mortgage banking business. For further discussion of our segments, including our Stifel Bank reporting unit, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Segment Analysis." As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, we are more sensitive to changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve, or in relative spreads between market interest rates. The monetary, tax, and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and market interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits, which may also affect the value of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax, and other policies or the effect that they may have on our activities and results of operations. In addition, Stifel Bank is heavily regulated at the state and federal level. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, not our stockholders. Federal and state regulations can significantly restrict our businesses, and we are subject to various regulatory actions, which could include fines, penalties, or other sanctions for violations of laws and regulatory rules if we are ultimately found to be out of compliance. 20 We may experience losses associated with mortgage repurchases and indemnification obligations. Through Stifel Bank, in the normal course of business, we originate residential mortgage loans and sell them to investors. We are subject to the inherent risk associated with selling mortgage loans in the secondary market. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that have been sold to investors in the event there are breaches of certain representations and warranties contained within the sales agreements. While we have yet to repurchase a loan sold to an investor, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that were sold to investors in the event that there was inadequate underwriting or fraud, or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. We also may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, and the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of the related loans. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. We seek to manage, monitor, and control our operational, legal, and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. Further, our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. In addition, we have undergone significant growth in recent years. A failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We must also address potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. We have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest, but identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest can be complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements, which are important to attract and retain financial advisors. We rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and industry demands is critical for our business. Introduction of new technologies presents new challenges on a regular basis. In addition to better serving our clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables our company to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade our systems and our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy their demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively upgrade our systems, implement new technology-driven products and services, or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. Our operations and infrastructure and those of the service providers upon which we rely may malfunction or fail. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people, or systems, we could suffer impairments, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or reputational damage. We have outsourced certain aspects of our technology infrastructure, including trade processing, data centers, disaster recovery systems, and wide area networks, as well as market data servers, which constantly broadcast news, quotes, analytics, and other important information to the desktop computers of our financial advisors. We contract with other vendors to produce, batch, and mail our confirmations and customer reports. We are dependent on our technology providers to manage and monitor those functions. A disruption of any of the outsourced services would be out of our control and could negatively impact our business. We have experienced disruptions on occasion, none of which has been material to our operations and results. However, there can be no guarantee that future disruptions with these providers will not occur. We also face the risk of operational failure, termination, or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses, or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. 21 Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed, stored in, and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties', or third parties' operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We may suffer losses if our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. If we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to additional legal risk to us, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and penalties. Our current stockholders may experience dilution in their holdings if we issue additional shares of common stock as a result of future offerings or acquisitions where we use our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we may continue to seek opportunities for growth through strategic acquisitions, in which we may consider issuing equity securities as part of the consideration. Additionally, we may obtain additional capital through the public or private sale of equity securities. If we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. Furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences, and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. Moreover, if we issue additional shares of common stock in connection with future acquisitions or as a result of a financing, investors' ownership interest in our company will be diluted. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to stockholders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. We are subject to risks of legal proceedings, which may result in significant losses to us that we cannot recover. Claimants in these proceedings may be customers, employees, or regulatory agencies, among others, seeking damages for mistakes, errors, negligence, or acts of fraud by our employees. Many aspects of our business subject us to substantial risks of potential liability to customers and to regulatory enforcement proceedings by state and federal regulators. Participants in the financial services industry face an increasing amount of litigation and arbitration proceedings. Dissatisfied clients regularly make claims against broker-dealers and their employees for, among others, negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, suitability, churning, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions by financial advisors or traders, improper recruiting activity, and failures in the processing of securities transactions. These types of claims expose us to the risk of significant loss. Acts of fraud are difficult to detect and deter, and while we believe our supervisory procedures are reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of applicable laws, rules, and regulations, we cannot assure investors that our risk management procedures and controls will prevent losses from fraudulent activity. In our role as underwriter and selling agent, we may be liable if there are material misstatements or omissions of material information in prospectuses and other communications regarding underwritten offerings of securities. At any point in time, the aggregate amount of existing claims against us could be material. While we do not expect the outcome of any existing claims against us to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, we cannot assure you that these types of proceedings will not materially and adversely affect our company. We do not carry insurance that would cover payments regarding these liabilities, with the exception of fidelity coverage with respect to certain fraudulent acts of our employees. In addition, our bylaws provide for the indemnification of our officers, directors, and employees to the maximum extent permitted under Delaware law. In the future, we may be the subject of indemnification assertions under these documents by our officers, directors, or employees who have or may become defendants in litigation. These claims for indemnification may subject us to substantial risks of potential liability. For a discussion of our legal matters (including ARS and OPEB litigation) and our approach to managing legal risk, see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." 22 In addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending litigation and claims has increased over the last several years. The amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations as such fees occur. Securities class action litigation, in particular, is highly complex and can extend for a protracted period of time, thereby substantially increasing the costs incurred to resolve this litigation. Misconduct by our employees or by the employees of our business partners could harm us and is difficult to detect and prevent. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our ability to detect and prevent misconduct by entities with which we do business may be even more limited. We may suffer reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees or those entities with which we do business. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter abusive takeover tactics by making them unacceptably expensive to prospective acquirors and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 