Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our future operating results may vary substantially from anticipated results due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these factors and the possible impact of these factors on our future results of operations. If any of the following events actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially. Risks Relating to Our Business. We have a history of operating losses, we do not expect to become profitable in the near future and absent a significant increase in revenue or additional equity or debt financing, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements for the years ended July 31, 2010 and 2009 were prepared on a “going concern” basis; however substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of recurring losses and an accumulated deficit. We are not profitable and have been incurring material losses. Our net losses for our fiscal years ended July 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $1.6 million, $1.8 million and $1.8 million, respectively. As of July 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $21.4 million. Our revenues from 2005 through 2008 were primarily derived from royalties on sales of diagnostic monitoring hardware and software licensed to two third parties (one of which is no longer operating) and from sales of parts and services related to acceleration therapeutics platforms used for research purposes. Although we have obtained regulatory clearance to market our principal products in the US and abroad, there can be no assurance that our products will achieve market acceptance. Market acceptance of our products may depend upon, among other things: the timing of market introduction of competitive products; the safety and efficacy of our products; and the potential advantage or disadvantages of alternative treatments. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues or be profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Absent a significant increase in revenue or additional equity or debt financing, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and you may lose all of your investment in us. 13 Table of Contents We will likely require additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may need to amend our Articles of Incorporation to increase our number of authorized shares of common stock. We will likely need to raise additional capital in order for us to continue as a going concern. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we will need to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In order to raise additional capital we may need to amend our Articles of Incorporation to increase our number of authorized shares of common stock, which would require shareholder approval. We cannot assure you that we could obtain such approval. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our research and development programs and operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience significant dilution, and debt financing, if available, may require that we agree to covenants that restrict our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We terminated the Product and Supply Agreement with Sing Lin and may potentially be obligated to pay amounts under the agreement. The now-terminated product and supply agreement with Sing Lin contained obligations to purchase approximately $2.6 million of Exer-Rest units within one year of acceptance of the final product, and an additional $4.1 million and $8.8 million of products in the second and third years following acceptance of the final product, respectively. Under the product and supply agreement, we were required to pay a portion of the product purchase price at the time production orders were placed, with the balance due upon delivery. Through July 31, 2010, we paid Sing Lin $1.7 million in connection with orders placed through that date, and we will be required to make additional payments totaling approximately $60,000 upon taking delivery of the units currently in production. As of July 31, 2010, we had not placed orders sufficient to satisfy the first-year or second-year minimum purchase obligations under the agreement. We notified Sing Lin in June 2010 that we were terminating the agreement effective September 2010, and Sing Lin in July 2010 demanded that we place orders sufficient to fulfill the three year purchase obligations under the agreement. There can be no assurance that Sing Lin will not attempt to enforce its rights under the product and supply agreement, or pursue other available remedies. If Sing Lin seeks to enforce remedies against us, any such remedies could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our products, and we presently have no agreement with any third party to manufacture and supply our products. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our products. We have no experience in medical device manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our products on a commercial scale. We expect to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited, and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can begin manufacturing our product. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We entered into an agreement with Sing Lin to, among other things, manufacture all of our acceleration therapeutic platforms. We notified Sing Lin in June 2010 that we were terminating the agreement, which termination was effective September 2010. As a result, we currently have no supplier contracted to manufacture our products, and Sing Lin and its suppliers are currently in possession of the tooling required to manufacture our products. If we are unable to enter into a new agreement for the manufacture and supply of our devices, whether with Sing Lin or another supplier, or if we are not able to timely regain possession of our tooling, we may not be able to procure additional inventory on a timely basis, in the quantities we require or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The current worldwide economic crisis and concurrent market instability may materially and adversely affect the demand for our products, as well as our ability to obtain credit or secure funds through sales of our stock, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and ability to fund our operations. The current worldwide economic crisis may reduce the demand for new and innovative medical devices, resulting in delayed market acceptance of our products. Such a delay could have a material adverse impact on our business, expected cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have funded our operations to date primarily through private sales of our common stock and preferred stock and through borrowings under credit facilities available to us from stockholders and other individuals. The current economic turmoil and instability in the world’s equity and credit markets may materially adversely affect our ability to sell additional shares of our stock and/or borrow cash. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional working capital on acceptable terms or at all, which may materially adversely affect our ability to continue our operations. Healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, and there have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Congress recently passed health care reform legislation that President Obama signed into law in March 2010. The package signed into law by the President is considered by some to be the most dramatic change to the country’s health care system in decades. The principal aim of the law as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million Americans who are currently uninsured. The law’s most far-reaching changes do not take effect until 2014, including a requirement that most Americans carry health insurance. The effect of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of the Company’s products is unknown and speculative at this point. The enacted legislation contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions. The most relevant of these provisions are those that impose fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. Beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer will have to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices. This tax applies to all medical devices, including the Company’s products and product candidates. In addition to the new legislation discussed above, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any such future legislation or regulation will have on us. In addition to the taxes imposed by the new federal legislation, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of clearances or approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products, which could materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues. Once regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, the cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Any cleared or approved product may only be promoted for its indicated uses. Accordingly, it is possible that our products may be cleared or approved for fewer or more limited uses than we request or that clearance or approval may be granted contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials. In addition, if the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities clear or approve our products, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the products will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. It is possible that the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our products. Further, regulatory agencies must approve our manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory clearance or approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Our competitors may develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our products, negatively impacting our commercial opportunities. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many medical device companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address the same ailments we are endeavoring to address. The medical devices that we have developed or are developing will compete with other medical devices that currently exist or are being developed. Products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other medical devices and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than we do. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than our products, or that reach the market sooner than our products, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change. It may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, then we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or products obsolete or less competitive. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, our business could be materially harmed. We currently hold five United States patents with respect to overall design and specific features of our present and proposed products and have submitted applications with respect to four foreign patents. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of medical device companies, including us, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in medical device patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third party patent or circumvent the third party patent, which would be costly and would require significant time and attention of our management. Third parties may have or obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing products using our technology. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts any of which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, business prospects and results of operations. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval outside the United States will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to market certain of our products and product candidates in non-U.S. markets. In order to market our existing and future products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with non-U.S. regulatory authorities, the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more non-U.S. regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. The non-U.S. regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval or clearance. We may not obtain non-U.S. regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for non-U.S. regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our existing and future product candidates in any market. Non-U.S. governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We have obtained approval to market certain of our products in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions, which subjects us to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our products. In some countries, particularly countries of the European Union, each of which has developed its own rules and regulations, pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a medical device candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our existing and future product candidates to other available products. If reimbursement of our future product candidates is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. 17 Table of Contents Our business is subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally, in part due to some of our suppliers historically being located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • difficulties in compliance with non-U.S. laws and regulations; • changes in non-U.S. regulations and customs; • changes in non-U.S. currency exchange rates and currency controls; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic environment; • trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by U.S. or non-U.S. governments; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • difficulties associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including differing labor relations. Risks Relating to Our Stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not declared and paid cash dividends on our common stock in the past and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all of our earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases and you sell your shares. Because our common stock is a “penny stock,” it may be more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our common stock, which trades only on the OTCBB, is a “penny stock” since, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, it is not listed on a national securities exchange, and it has not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to an investor in violation of the penny stock rules, the investor may be able to cancel its purchase and get its money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell their shares of our common stock publicly at times and prices acceptable to them. Our stock price has been volatile and there may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. Our stock price has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. The price of our common stock has ranged between $0.22 and $0.49 for the 52-week period ended September 30, 2010. Factors that have a significant impact on the price of our common stock, in addition to the other issues described in this report, include results of or delays in our pre-clinical and clinical studies, announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or others, developments in patents and other proprietary rights by us or others, future sales of our common stock by existing shareholders, regulatory developments or changes in regulatory guidance, the departure of our officers, directors or key employees, and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Also, you may not be able to sell your shares at the best market price if trading in our stock in not active or if the volume is low. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the OTCBB. 18 Table of Contents Our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and these fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. The nature of our business involves variable factors, such as the timing of the research, development and regulatory submissions of our devices that could cause our operating results to fluctuate. As a result, in some future quarters our clinical, financial or operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors which could result in a decline in the price of our stock. Shareholders may experience dilution of ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock and our preferred stock. In the future, we may issue our authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 101,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with preferences and rights to be determined by our Board of Directors. As of October 15, 2010, there were outstanding: a) 68,903,165 shares of our common stock, b) 100 shares of our Series B preferred stock, c) 62,048 shares of our Series C preferred stock, each currently convertible into 25 shares of our common stock and d) 2,795 shares of our Series D preferred stock, each currently convertible into 5,000 shares of our common stock. Also as of October 15, 2010, there were outstanding options to purchase 2,505,832 shares of our common stock, and we have reserved 1,551,200 shares of our common stock for issuance upon conversion of our Series C preferred stock and 13,975,000 shares of our common stock for issuance upon conversion of our Series D preferred stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of our common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock are currently traded on the OTCBB. 