Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our future operating results may vary substantially from anticipated results due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these factors and the possible impact of these factors on future results of operations. If any of the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially. 13 Risks Relating to Our Business. Our financial statements indicate that we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We have a history of operating losses and we do not expect to become profitable in the near future: Our consolidated financial statements for the years ended July 31, 2009 and 2008 were prepared on a “going concern” basis; however substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of recurring losses and an accumulated deficit. We are not profitable and have been incurring material losses. Our net losses for our fiscal years ended July 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $1.8 million, $1.8 million and $1.4 million, respectively. As of July 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $19.8 million. Our revenues from 2005 through 2008 were primarily derived from royalties on sales of diagnostic monitoring hardware and software licensed to two third parties (one of which is no longer operating) and from sales of parts and services related to acceleration therapeutics platforms used for research purposes. Although we have obtained regulatory clearance to market our principal products in the US and abroad, there can be no assurance that our products will achieve market acceptance. Market acceptance of our products may depend upon: the timing of market introduction of competitive products; the safety and efficacy of our products; and the potential advantage or disadvantages of alternative treatments. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues or be profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. The current worldwide economic crisis and concurrent market instability may materially and adversely affect the demand for our products, as well as our ability to obtain credit or secure funds through sales of our stock, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and ability to fund our operations: The current worldwide economic crisis may reduce the demand for new and innovative medical devices, resulting in delayed market acceptance of our products. Such a delay could have a material adverse impact on our business, expected cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have funded our operations to date primarily through private sales of our common stock and through borrowings under credit facilities available to us from stockholders and other individuals. The current economic turmoil and instability in the world’s equity and credit markets may materially adversely affect our ability to sell additional shares of our stock and/or borrow cash. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional working capital on acceptable terms or at all, which may materially adversely affect our ability to continue our operations. Healthcare policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us: Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, may impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have conducted hearings about U.S. healthcare reform. In the Obama administration’s fiscal year 2010 federal budget proposal, the administration emphasized maintaining patient choice, reducing inefficiencies and costs, increasing prevention programs, increasing coverage portability and universality, improving quality of care and maintaining fiscal sustainability. The Obama administration’s fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to limit Medicare payments, reduce drug spending and increase taxes. In addition, some members of Congress have proposed a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public healthcare measures. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. 14 The terms of clearances or approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products, which could materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues: Once regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, the cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Any cleared or approved product may only be promoted for its indicated uses. Accordingly, it is possible that our products may be cleared or approved for fewer or more limited uses than we request or that clearance or approval may be granted contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials. In addition, if the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities clear or approve our products, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the products will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. It is possible that the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our products. Further, regulatory agencies must approve our manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. In addition, the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory clearance or approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our products: We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our products. We have no experience in medical device manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our products on a commercial scale. We entered into a Product and Development and Supply Agreement with Sing Lin Technology Co. Ltd. (“Sing Lin”) to, among other things, manufacture all of our acceleration therapeutic platforms. If Sing Lin is unable to produce our products in the amounts that we require, we may not be able to establish a contract and obtain a sufficient alternative supply from another supplier on a timely basis and in the quantities we require. We expect to depend on Sing Lin and other third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can begin manufacturing our product. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. Our competitors may develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our products, negatively impacting our commercial opportunities: The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many medical device companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address the same ailments we are endeavoring to address. The medical devices that we have developed or are developing will compete with other medical devices that currently exist or are being developed. Products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other medical devices and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than we do. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than our products, or that reach the market sooner than our products, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change. It may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or products obsolete or less competitive. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, our business could be materially harmed: We currently hold four United States patents with respect to overall design and specific features of our present and proposed products and have submitted applications with respect to four foreign patents. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of medical device companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in medical device patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected: In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties: Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts: Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We will likely require additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may need to amend our Articles of Incorporation to increase our number of authorized shares of Common Stock: We will likely need to raise additional capital in order for us to continue our operations as currently contemplated. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we will need to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In order to raise additional capital we may need to amend our Articles of Incorporation to increase our number of authorized shares of Common Stock, which would require shareholder approval. We anticipate that shareholder approval of such an amendment would be obtained; however, there can be no absolute assurance that approval will be granted. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our research and development programs and operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. 16 Risks Relating to Our Stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future: We have not declared and paid cash dividends on our common stock in the past and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all of our earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Because our Common Stock is a “penny stock,” it may be more difficult for investors to sell shares of our Common Stock, and the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected: Our Common Stock is a “penny stock” since, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, it is not listed on a national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the Nasdaq Stock Market or any other national stock exchange and it has not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to an investor in violation of the penny stock rules, the investor may be able to cancel its purchase and get its money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our Common Stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell their shares of our Common Stock publicly at times and prices acceptable to them. Our stock price has been volatile and there may not be an active, liquid trading market for our Common Stock: Our stock price has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. Factors that have a significant impact on the price of our common stock, in addition to the other issues described in this report, include results of or delays in our pre-clinical and clinical studies, announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or others, developments in patents and other proprietary rights by us or others, future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders, regulatory developments or changes in regulatory guidance, the departure of our officers, directors or key employees, and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Also, you may not be able to sell your shares at the best market price if trading in our stock in not active or if the volume is low. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the OTC Bulletin Board Market. 17 Our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and these fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline: Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. The nature of our business involves variable factors, such as the timing of the research, development and regulatory submissions of our devices that could cause our operating results to fluctuate. As a result, in some future quarters our clinical, financial or operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors which could result in a decline in the price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. As a smaller reporting company as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, we are not required to include information otherwise required by this item. Item 