ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements or could result in a significant or material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are subject to cyclical demand for title insurance, which depends upon the volume of residential and commercial real estate transactions and mortgage refinancing transactions and economic factors. The demand for the Company’s title insurance and other real estate transaction products and services varies over time and from year to year and is dependent upon, among other things, the volume of commercial and residential real estate transactions and mortgage financing and refinancing transactions. The volume of these transactions has historically been influenced by factors such as the state of the overall economy, the average price of real estate sales, the availability of mortgage financing and mortgage interest rates. During an economic downturn or recession, such 9 as current conditions in the United States, or when the availability of credit, including mortgage financing, is limited or mortgage interest rates are increasing, real estate activity typically declines. The cyclical nature of the Company’s business has caused fluctuations in revenue and profitability in the past and is expected to do so in the future. The real estate and credit markets have been experiencing significant volatility and disruption for more than approximately 18 months and have created a difficult operating environment for the Company and other companies in the industries in which it operates. The value of residential real estate property and the volume of new and existing home sales have significantly declined since the market peak in 2005. In addition, the Company holds investments in entities which may be negatively impacted by these conditions. The ultimate depth and duration of the economic downturn are unknown. If the current levels of real estate and credit market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience adverse effects, which may be material, to its results of operations and financial condition. The overall demand for title insurance also depends in part upon the requirement by mortgage lenders and participants in the secondary mortgage market that title insurance policies be obtained on residential and commercial real property. The Company may experience material losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct. Fraud, defalcation and other misconduct by the Company’s agents, approved attorneys and employees are risks inherent in the Company’s business. Agents and approved attorneys typically handle large sums of money in trust pursuant to the closing of real estate transactions and misappropriation of funds by any of these parties could result in large title claims. During the recent economic downturn, the Company has experienced an increase in losses from these factors as compared to historical experience. If current economic conditions continue or worsen, the Company could continue to experience greater-than-normal losses from fraud, defalcation and misconduct. Differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s net income is affected by the extent to which its actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions used in establishing reserves for claims. Reserves for claims are established based on actuarial estimates of how much the Company will need to pay for reported as well as incurred, but not yet reported claims. In addition, management considers factors such as the Company’s historical claims experience, case reserve estimates on reported claims, large claims and other relevant factors in determining loss provision rates and the aggregate recorded expected liability for claims. Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of reserves for claims, the Company cannot determine precisely the amounts which it will ultimately pay to settle its claims. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions used in establishing such liabilities, the Company could be required to increase reserves. Title claims can often be complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions and may involve uncertainties as to ultimate exposure, and therefore, reserve estimates are subject to variability. In addition, the Company may experience unexpected large losses periodically which require it to increase its title loss reserves. Poor economic conditions can lead to increased incidences of title insurance claims, and consequently losses, due to increases in defaults and foreclosures upon insured properties. The Company has experienced an increase in the incidence of title claims and losses during the recent economic downturn. If the current environment continues or deteriorates further, the Company may continue to experience increased levels of claims and losses, which may have a material negative effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Weakness in the commercial real estate market could have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. Through the Company’s title insurance subsidiaries, it issues commercial title insurance policies in connection with real estate transactions. The commercial real estate market is currently experiencing a credit crisis and commercial real estate prices are down considerably from their peak two years ago. According to the MIT Center for Real Estate, nearly half of all United States commercial real estate mortgage loans come due within the next five years. With the possibility of further declining values of commercial property, limited credit availability, increasing defaults and foreclosures on loans secured by commercial real estate, the Company could see an increase in the number of claims associated with these policies. An increase in the amount or severity of claims could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. 10 A decline in the performance of the Company’s investments could materially adversely affect net income and cash flows. Changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, activities in securities markets and other external factors could adversely affect the value of the Company’s investment portfolio and, in turn, the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Recent economic and credit market conditions have adversely affected the ability of some issuers of investment securities to repay their obligations and have affected the values of investment securities. If the carrying value of the Company’s investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the Company will be required to write down the value of its investments, which could materially harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. During the recent economic downturn, the Company has written down the value of some of its investment portfolio. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex government regulations. The Company’s title insurance businesses are subject to extensive state laws and regulations by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of policyholders and consumers. The nature and extent of these laws and regulations typically involve, among other matters, licensing and renewal requirements and trade and marketing practices, including, but not limited to: licensing of insurers and agents; capital and surplus requirements; approval of premium rates for insurance; limitations on types and amounts of investments; restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured by a single company; deposits of securities for the benefit of policy holders; filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition; approval of policy forms; and regulations regarding the use of personal information. These laws and regulations are subject to change and may restrict the Company’s ability to implement rate increases or other actions that it may want to take to enhance its operating results or otherwise have a negative impact on its ability to generate revenue, earnings and cash flows. Many of the Company’s other businesses operate within state and federal guidelines. Any changes in the applicable regulatory environment or changes in existing regulations could restrict its existing or future operations or make it more burdensome to conduct them. Revenues from the Company’s exchange services are closely related to the tax rate on capital gains and other provisions in the Internal Revenue Code. The Company’s revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond its control. In addition, the investment management and trust services division is regulated by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. Regulation of title insurance rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Title insurance rates are subject to extensive regulation, which varies from state to state. In many states, the preapproval of the applicable state insurance regulator is required prior to implementing a rate change. This regulation could hinder the Company’s ability to promptly adapt to changing market dynamics through price adjustments, which could affect its results of operations. Competition in the Company’s business affects its revenues. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. Key factors that affect competition in the title insurance business are quality of service, price within regulatory parameters, expertise, timeliness and the financial strength and size of the insurer. Title companies compete for premiums by choosing various distribution channels which may include company-owned operations and issuing agency relationships with attorneys, lenders, realtors, builders and other settlement service providers. Title insurance underwriters compete for agents on the basis of service and commission levels. Some title insurers currently have greater financial resources, larger distribution networks and more extensive computerized databases of property records and information than the Company. The number and 11 size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which the Company operates. Competition among the major providers of title insurance or the acceptance of new alternatives to traditional title products by the marketplace could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial condition. The Company’s success relies on its ability to attract and retain key personnel and agents. Competition for skilled and experienced personnel and agents in the Company’s industry is high. The Company may have difficulty hiring the necessary marketing and management personnel to support any future growth. The loss of any key employee or the failure of any key employee to perform in their current position could prevent the Company from realizing future growth. Also, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will succeed in attracting or retaining new agents. Its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in one of the Company’s financial strength ratings could result in a loss of business. The competitive positions of insurance companies rely in part on the independent ratings of their financial strength and claims-paying ability. The Company’s financial strength ratings are subject to continued periodic review by rating agencies and subject to change. A significant downgrade in the ratings of either of the Company’s policy-issuing subsidiaries could negatively impact its ability to compete for new business and retain existing business and maintain licenses necessary to operate as title insurance companies in various states. Insurance regulations limit the ability of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to the holding company. The Company is an insurance holding company and it has no substantial operations of its own. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and meet its obligations is dependent, among other things, on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds to it. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance and other regulations that limit the amount of dividends, loans or advances to it based on the amount of adjusted unassigned surplus and net income and require these subsidiaries to maintain minimum amounts of capital, surplus and reserves. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require prior state insurance regulatory approval. These dividend restrictions could limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders or grow its business. For further discussion of the regulation of dividend payments and other transactions between affiliates, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this report. The Company may encounter difficulties managing growth or technology changes, which could adversely affect its results. The Company has historically achieved revenue growth in part through a combination of developing related new products or services and increasing its market share for existing products. A portion of the Company’s growth may be in services or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than with its core business and geographic areas. The expansion of the Company’s business, particularly in new services or geographic areas, or significant changes in technology may subject it to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention, lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses and a change in competitive position resulting from technology changes. The Company relies upon North Carolina for about 44% of its title insurance premiums. North Carolina is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance and, in 2009, North Carolina-based premiums accounted for approximately 44% of premiums earned by the Company. A decrease in North Carolina business would negatively impact financial results. Failures at financial institutions at which the Company deposits funds could adversely affect the Company. The Company deposits substantial funds in financial institutions. These funds include amounts owned by third parties, such as escrow deposits. Should one or more of the financial institutions at which the Company maintains deposits fail, there is no guarantee that the Company would recover the funds it has deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise. 12 Certain provisions of the Company’s shareholder rights plan may make a takeover of the Company difficult. The Company has a shareholders rights plan which could discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to the Company’s shareholders for their common shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 