ITEM 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other communications made by us contain forward-looking statements, including statements about our growth and future operating results, development of products, sales and intellectual property. For this purpose, any statement that is not a statement of historical fact should be considered a forward-looking statement. We often use the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “will” and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. References to “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Nestor, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and expect to incur losses in the future. We have a history of net losses. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, our net losses have been approximately $7,491,000, $6,764,000 and $6,178,000, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 we had an accumulated deficit of $68,479,000. We expect to incur continuing losses for the foreseeable future due to significant marketing, product delivery, engineering and general and administrative expenses, and those losses could be substantial. We will need to generate significantly higher revenue, or reduce costs, to achieve profitability, which we may be unable to do. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. We have substantial indebtedness. As a result of the May 2006 offering of secured notes due May 2011, we have substantial indebtedness and we are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2006, we have total indebtedness of approximately $25,690,000. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our strategic operating flexibility and our capacity to meet competitive pressures and withstand adverse economic conditions. In addition, our secured notes contain restrictive covenants which, among other things, limit our ability to borrow additional funds, sell equity, repay indebtedness, including the secured notes, before maturity or grant security interests on our assets. Under the terms of the secured notes, we will be unable to refinance our existing debt on more favorable terms. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant adverse consequences, including: · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of the net proceeds of the debt and any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest, and potentially principal, on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such proceeds and cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes. · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and · placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt and competitors that have better access to capital resources. 14 Table of Contents Furthermore, in order to repay our indebtedness at maturity, if not converted into common stock, including the secured notes, we will need to refinance all or a portion of that indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effect any such refinancing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our debt service costs exceed our current operating cash flow. For the year ended December 31, 2006, and each of our prior fiscal years, we had negative operating cash flow, and we expect to continue to incur negative operating cash flow in future periods. Our ability to make scheduled payments of interest or principal, if any, on our indebtedness, including the secured notes, or to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our future performance, which, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that future revenue growth will be realized or that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our financial performance doesn’t improve, our interest costs will increase. The interest rate on our secured notes is subject to a 2% increase if we fail to achieve EBITDA (defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, any derivative instrument gain or loss or any employee stock option expense under SFAS 123R, “Share-Based Payment ) of at least $1,250,000 for our fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2007. For the quarter ended December 31, 2006, EBITDA as so calculated was negative $1,370,000. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve $1,250,000 of EBITDA by the second quarter of fiscal 2007, which would result in a material increase in our fixed interest expense and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have granted a lien on substantially all of our assets. Our obligations under the secured notes are secured by substantially all of our assets and substantially all of the assets of our principal subsidiaries, except as to contracts we enter into after October 1, 2006 and all assets directly related thereto. Upon an event of default under the secured notes, these lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, such lenders will have a first claim on our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. If these creditors should attempt to foreclose on their collateral, it is unlikely that there would be any assets remaining after repayment in full of such secured indebtedness and our financial condition and, thus, the value of our common stock, would be materially adversely affected. We will need additional financing, which may be difficult or impossible to obtain and may restrict our operations and dilute stockholder ownership interest. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $25,690,000 million of outstanding debt, at par value. We will need to raise additional funds in the near future to fund our operations, deliver our products, expand or enhance our products and services, finance acquisitions and respond to competitive pressures or perceived opportunities. Because the nature of our operations requires us to bear all the up-front costs of deploying our technology, additional funds will be crucial to our continuing operations. We cannot provide any assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or not available on acceptable terms, our business and results of operations may suffer. We cannot provide any assurance that we can continue as a going concern unless we raise the additional financing. Our outstanding debt contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to raise additional funds through debt financings. As a result of these restrictions, any additional debt must be for the sole purpose of financing the design, engineering, installation, construction, configuring, maintenance, or operation or improvement of property or equipment at customer sites pursuant to customer contracts entered into after October 1, 2006 and will not be available to fund general overhead expenses. If we raise additional funds through a debt financing, the terms and conditions of the debt financing may result in further restrictions on our operations or require that we grant a security interest in some or all of the assets related to the customer contracts toward which such financing would be applied. Any debt that we incur would increase our leverage and could exacerbate the negative consequences described above under “— We have substantial indebtedness.” 15 Table of Contents Additionally, we could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates or products which we would otherwise pursue on our own. Our outstanding debt consists of convertible notes which contain anti-dilution provisions which would lower the conversion price if we were to issue equity for a price less than the conversion price. We also have outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock which contain anti-dilution provisions which would lower the exercise price and increase the number of shares issuable upon exercise if we were to issue equity for a price less than the exercise price. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, which would require the consent of our secured Noteholders, further dilution to our then-existing stockholders will result and the terms of the financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of such stockholders. Substantially all of our current revenue is from a single product and related services. Currently, substantially all of our revenue is from our red light enforcement systems and services. While we have recently begun to deploy the speed enforcement products, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate significant revenue from this product or that we will be able to develop other sources of revenue. Because our revenue depends substantially on a single product, any decrease in the market share held by CrossingGuard, unless offset by other revenue sources, would have a substantial adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to meet our expectations for the growth in sales of CrossingGuard and Poliscan or if we are not able to expand our speed enforcement business or develop other sources of revenue, we will not be able to generate the significantly higher revenue that we believe we must generate to achieve profitability. We have limited experience in the speed enforcement market. We have limited experience in the speed enforcement market. Currently, we are only party to nine speed enforcement contracts, one of which is a pilot program that we expect will run through the end of the current school year, and thereafter be replaced by a longer term program with a vendor selected through an RFP. There can be no assurance that we will obtain additional speed enforcement contracts. Furthermore, since we have only limited experience in deploying the Poliscan automated enforcement system, we cannot assure you that this product will be profitable, new customers will be obtained, or that any revenue from the sale of these systems will be sustainable. We may not maintain our rights to market Poliscan. Under our contract with Vitronic, if we fail to generate specific sales volume during each year of the contract beginning with the year ending June 30, 2007, Vitronic can elect to terminate our exclusivity or the entire contract. There can be no assurance that we will meet the performance targets under the contract. Because the growth of our speed business, namely the increased deployment of Poliscan systems, is a key component of our growth strategy, the termination of the Vitronic contract could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A substantial portion of our debt is subject to redemption at the holder’s option prior to maturity. The holders of our secured notes have the right to require us to redeem all or any portion of those notes on May 25, 2009, unless our consolidated EBITDA (defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, any derivative instrument gain or loss or any employee stock option expense under SFAS 123R, “Share-Based Payment”) for 2008 exceeds $14,000,000. The terms of our secured notes do not permit us to refinance those notes or to borrow to redeem the notes prior to maturity. Thus, our ability to redeem the secured notes if tendered will depend upon our operating performance as well as prevailing economic and market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Failure to redeem properly tendered notes would constitute an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and thus, the value of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to secure and maintain future contracts with government entities. Contracts with government entities account for essentially all of our revenue. The majority of these contracts may be terminated at any time on short notice with limited penalties. Accordingly, we might fail to derive any revenue from sales to government entities in any given future period. If government entities fail to renew or if they terminate any of these contracts, it would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our existing contracts typically authorize the installation of our products at a specified number of approaches. As of December 31, 2006, our active contracts with state and local governments authorized the installation of CrossingGuard at up to an additional 245 approaches. In many cases, we cannot proceed with these installations until the sites and related installation plans have been approved by the contracting entities, which can be a lengthy process. In those cases, if government entities fail to approve sites, we will not be able to deliver products and services or generate revenue associated therewith. We cannot assure you that all approaches under contract will ultimately be installed. We face substantial competition and may not be able to compete successfully. Many other companies offer products that directly compete with CrossingGuard and our speed products. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources than we do and may be able to bring new technologies to market before we are able to do so. Some of our competitors may have a competitive advantage because of their size, market share, legacy customer relationships, enhanced driver imaging, additional products offered and/or citation-processing experience. Current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with one another or with third parties to compete more effectively against us. One of our competitors, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS), offers state and local governments solutions to a wide variety of data processing issues, has the greatest number of red light camera systems installed, and may have a competitive advantage because of the scope of its relationship with, and the volume of transactions it conducts for, a particular government. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire market share. Additionally, if we are not successful in protecting our patents, we could lose a competitive advantage. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of governments to authorize or maintain automated traffic enforcement may hinder our growth and harm our business. Currently, 24 states and the District of Columbia either authorize some use of automated red light enforcement or allow municipalities to elect to do so under “home rule” laws, whereby the authority to act in local affairs is transferred from the state to local counties and municipalities through a local home rule charter. It is uncertain at this time which additional states, if any, will allow the use of automated red light enforcement or if there will be other changes in the states that currently allow the practice. If additional states do not authorize the use of automated red light enforcement, our opportunities to generate additional revenue from the sale of CrossingGuard systems and related services will be limited. Additionally, some states that had previously authorized some use of automated red light enforcement could fail to maintain such authorization. For example, in 2005 the Virginia General Assembly declined to extend authorization for automated red light enforcement beyond the sunset date of June 30, 2005 in the enabling legislation. We had two revenue-producing red light enforcement contracts with municipalities in Virginia. We anticipate no material revenues from the 14 approaches covered by these contracts unless there is a change in Virginia law. It is possible that other states or municipalities could prohibit the use of red light enforcement systems in the future, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for automated speed enforcement products in the United States is limited. Ten states and the District of Columbia either authorize some use of automated speed enforcement or allow municipalities to elect to do so under “home rule” laws. Some of these states authorize automated speed enforcement only in limited circumstances such as school or work zones. If additional states do not authorize automated speed enforcement, our opportunities to generate additional revenue from the sale of automated speed enforcement systems and related services will be limited. 17 Table of Contents We could be subject to differing and inconsistent laws and regulations with respect to our products. If that were to happen, we may find it necessary to eliminate, modify or cancel components of our services that could result in additional development costs and the possible loss of revenue. Future legislative changes or other changes in the laws of states authorizing automated red light or speed enforcement in the administration of traffic enforcement programs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In states in which municipalities or counties are allowed to use automated enforcement under home rule laws, those municipalities or counties must act in accordance with state law in exercising that authority. The failure to act in accordance with state law would subject its automated enforcement program to legal challenge, which, if successful, could invalidate the program. As a result, we could lose our contract with that municipality or county and be required to refund revenue from that program. Currently, our program in Davenport, Iowa is suspended following a district court ruling that Davenport’s ordinance authorizing automated traffic enforcement exceeds the city's home rule authority. Our products might not achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our growth. The market for our products is still emerging. The rate at which state and local government bodies have accepted automated enforcement programs has varied significantly by locale. We expect to continue to experience variations in the degree to which these programs are accepted. Our ability to grow will depend on the extent to which our potential customers accept our products. This acceptance may be limited by: · The failure of states to adopt or maintain legislation enabling the use of automated traffic enforcement systems; · The failure of prospective customers to conclude that our products are valuable and should be used; · The reluctance of our prospective customers to replace their existing solutions with our products; · Marketing efforts of our competitors; and · The emergence of new technologies that could cause our products to be less competitive or obsolete. Because automated traffic enforcement in the United States is still in an early stage of development, we cannot accurately predict how large the market will become, and we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. For example, without knowing how commonplace automated enforcement will become, we may have difficulties in predicting the competitive environment that will develop. Our speed products are not certified by the International Association of Chiefs of Police. Potential customers may require or prefer IACP certification of automated speed enforcement equipment. Were a potential customer to require or prefer IACP certification, we would or could lose that potential customer, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Earnings for future periods may be affected by impairment charges. Because of the nature of our business, long-lived assets, including intangibles, represent a substantial portion of our assets. The Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in management’s judgment, that the carrying value of such assets used in operations may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on management’s estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets as compared to the carrying value of the assets. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impairment recognized will be determined by estimating the fair value for the assets and we will record a charge against earnings if the carrying value is greater than fair value. 18 Table of Contents Concerns about privacy rights and negative publicity regarding our industry could slow acceptance of our products. Various advocacy groups and some politicians have expressed concerns that automated traffic enforcement products infringe individual privacy and due process rights. Such concerns can delay the acceptance of our products and result in legal challenges that impede implementation of our traffic enforcement systems. Our business is more vulnerable to these types of challenges because the automated traffic enforcement industry is emerging. Furthermore, in the event of adverse publicity, whether directed at us or our competitors’ products, due to processing errors or other system failures, the automated traffic enforcement industry could suffer as a whole, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of our processing operations in one location exposes us to potential business interruption in the event of a natural disaster. We maintain substantially all of our operations, including a majority of our red light and speed enforcement equipment, at our Providence, Rhode Island headquarters. A disruption of our operations for any reason, including theft, government intervention or a natural disaster such as fire, earthquake, flood or other casualty could cause us to limit or cease our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Although we maintain business interruption insurance to cover natural disasters, no assurance can be given that such insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that such insurance would be sufficient to compensate us for damages resulting from such casualty. In addition, no assurance can be given that an interruption in our operations would not result in permanent loss of significant customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our financial results will depend significantly on our ability to continually develop our products and technologies. Our financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to successfully develop and enhance our products. We must successfully identify product and service opportunities, and develop and bring our products and technologies to market in a timely manner. The success of our product introductions will depend on several factors, including: · Proper product definition; · Timely completion and introduction of enhanced product designs; · The ability of subcontractors and component manufacturers to effectively design and implement the manufacture of new or enhanced products and technologies; · The quality of our products and technologies; · Product and technology performance as compared to competitors' products and technologies; · Market acceptance of our products; and · Competitive pricing of products, services and technologies. We have in the past experienced delays in completing the development or the introduction of new products. Our failure to successfully develop and introduce new or enhanced products and technologies or to achieve market acceptance for such products and technologies may materially harm our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our results of operations make it difficult to predict our future performance and may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We may incur significant expenses in anticipation of revenue, which may not materialize and we may not be able to reduce spending quickly if our revenue is lower than expected. In addition, our ability to forecast revenue, particularly with respect to our new speed products, is limited. As a result, our operating results are volatile and difficult to predict and you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include the risks discussed in this section as well as: · Costs related to customization of our products and services; · Announcements or introductions of new products and services by our competitors; · The failure of additional states to adopt or maintain legislation enabling the use of automated traffic enforcement systems; · Determinations by state and local government bodies to utilize our equipment without the additional processing services we provide; · Software defects and other product quality problems; · A shift towards fixed rate, as opposed to per ticket, compensation arrangements for our speed products, which could adversely affect revenues; · Adjustments in the estimates used to report revenue under contracts that require payment only after our customer has collected the fine; · The discretionary nature of our customers’ internal evaluation, approval and order processes; · The varying size, timing and contractual terms of orders for our products and services; and · The mix of revenue from our products and services. Our sales cycles vary significantly, making it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our results. Our sales cycles typically range from several months to over a year. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the quarter in which a particular sale will occur and to plan our expenses accordingly. The period between our initial contact with potential customers and the installation of our products, the use of our services and our generation of revenue, if any, varies due to several factors, including: · The complex nature of our products and services; · Political or legal challenges to legislation authorizing the use of automated traffic enforcement systems; · The novelty of automated traffic enforcement in many jurisdictions and a lack of familiarity with automated traffic enforcement systems on the part of legislative, executive and judicial bodies and the public; · The selection, award and contracting processes at municipalities and other government entities, including protests by other bidders with respect to competitive awards; · Our customers’ internal evaluation, approval and order processes; · The site evaluation and analysis process; and · Our customers' delays in issuing requests for proposals or in awarding contracts because of announcements or planned introductions of new products or services by our competitors. 20 Table of Contents Any delay or failure to complete installations in a particular quarter could reduce our revenue in that quarter, as well as subsequent quarters over which revenue would likely be recognized. If our installation cycles unexpectedly lengthen in general or for one or more large customers, it would delay our generation of the related revenue. If we were to experience a delay of several weeks or longer on a large customer, it could harm our ability to meet our forecasts for a given quarter. Our intellectual property might not be protectible, and if we fail to protect and preserve our intellectual property, we may lose an important competitive advantage. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade-secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products that compete against ours. In addition, some of our competitors have been able to offer products with some similar features that do not infringe our patents. For example, during the past 18 months we initiated two patent infringement suits against competitors, Redflex Traffic Systems, Inc. and Transol USA, Inc., both of which have been dismissed without a finding of infringement. The scope of United States patent protection in the software industry is not well defined and will evolve as the United States Patent and Trademark Office grants additional patents. Because some patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued or 18 months after the filing date, applications may exist that would relate to our products and are not publicly accessible. Moreover, a patent search has not been performed in an attempt to identify patents applicable to our business and, even if such a search were conducted, all patents applicable to the business might not be located. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may lose an important competitive advantage, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are at risk of claims that our products or services infringe the proprietary rights of others. Given our ongoing efforts to develop and market new technologies and products, we may from time to time be served with claims from third parties asserting that our products or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If, as a result of any claims, we were precluded from using technologies or intellectual property rights, licenses to the disputed third-party technology or intellectual property rights might not be available on reasonable commercial terms, or at all, which could restrict our ability to sell our products and services. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks, whether or not litigation is resolved in our favor. An adverse ruling in any litigation might require us to pay substantial damages, to discontinue our use and sale of infringing products and to expend significant resources in order to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses for our infringing technology. A court might also invalidate our patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. A successful claim against us, coupled with our failure to develop or license a substitute technology, could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially adversely affected. As the number of software products increase and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we believe that our risk of infringement claims will increase. If we are unable to safeguard the integrity, security and privacy of our data or our customers' data, our revenue may decline, our business could be disrupted and we may be sued. We need to preserve and protect our data and our customers' data against loss, corruption and misappropriation caused by system failures and unauthorized access. We could be subject to liability claims by individuals, whose data resides in our databases, for misuse of personal information. These claims could result in costly litigation. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate or destroy proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against systems failures, security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any failures or breaches. Any failure that causes the loss or corruption of, or unauthorized access to, this data could reduce customer satisfaction, expose us to liability and, if significant, could cause our revenue to decline and our expenses to increase. 21 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims that could result in costly and time-consuming litigation. Although our customer contracts typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitation of liability provisions. Any product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly, and potential liabilities could exceed our available insurance coverage, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our suppliers to deliver components, equipment and materials in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner could adversely affect our business. Our business employs a wide variety of components, equipment and materials from a limited number of suppliers. To date, we have found that the components, equipment and materials necessary for the development, testing, production and delivery of our products and services have sometimes not been available in the quantities or at the times we have required. Our failure to procure components, equipment and materials in particular quantities or at a particular time may result in delays in meeting our customers’ needs, which could have a negative effect on customer satisfaction and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. We believe that the hiring and retaining of qualified individuals at all levels in our organization will be essential to our ability to sustain and manage growth successfully. Competition for highly qualified technical personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the necessary personnel, which may limit the rate at which we can develop products and generate sales. We will be particularly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management personnel. The departure of any of our senior management members or other key personnel could harm our business. We may make acquisitions, which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders and be difficult to integrate. We may seek to expand our operations through the acquisition of complementary businesses. Our future growth may depend, in part, upon the continued success of our acquisitions. Acquisitions involve many risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: · Acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; · Integration of acquired businesses and technologies may not be successful and we may not realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, particularly if we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited or no current expertise or with a corporate culture different from ours; · Potential dilutive effect on our stockholders from the issuance of common stock as consideration for acquisitions; · Adverse effect on net income from impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and other acquisition-related charges, costs and expenses effects on net income; · Competing with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies, making it more difficult to acquire suitable companies on acceptable terms or at all; and · Disruption of our existing business, distraction of management, diversion of other resources and difficulty in maintaining our current business standards, controls and procedures. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price is volatile and may decline in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may be affected by our operating results, changes in our business, changes in the industry in which we conduct business, and general market and economic conditions that are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have affected stock prices of many companies without regard to their specific operating performance. These market fluctuations may make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares at a price equal to or above the price at which the shares were purchased. In addition, if our results of operations are below the expectations of market analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our board of directors can, without stockholder approval, cause preferred stock to be issued on terms that could adversely affect common stockholders. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 180,000 shares are issued and outstanding, and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. If the board causes any additional preferred stock to be issued, the rights of the holders of our common stock could be adversely affected. The board's ability to determine the terms of preferred stock and to cause its issuance, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We have no current plans to issue additional shares of preferred stock. Our President and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns a significant amount of our common stock and, accordingly, exercises significant control over our business and affairs, including the approval of change in control transactions. As of December 31, 2006, our President and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns approximately 51.3% of our common stock, which includes shares of common stock held by Silver Star Partners I, LLC (Silver Star), of which he serves as the managing director. Based on the number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2007, our President and Chief Executive Officer will be able to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These matters include the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or business combination even if the transaction might be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware restricts business combinations with any “interested stockholder” as defined by the statute. The statute may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. Provisions of our secured notes and secured note warrants could delay or prevent a change of control There are provisions in our secured notes and secured note warrants that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition because, upon a change of control (as defined in the notes), the holders of the secured notes have the right to redeem some or all of their secured notes and the holders of the secured note warrants will have the right to effectively accelerate the maturity date and demand payment. 23 Table of Contents We have not paid, and do not intend to pay, dividends and therefore, unless our common stock appreciates in value, our investors may not benefit from holding our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends since inception. We intend on retaining any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business, and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, our investors will not be able to benefit from owning our common stock unless the market price of our common stock becomes greater than the basis that these investors have in their shares. We have a significant number of options, warrants and convertible securities outstanding, which if exercised or converted, will have a dilutive effect upon our stockholders. The anti-dilution provisions of some of these securities could magnify that dilutive effect.. As of December 31, 2006, we have issued and outstanding warrants and options to purchase up to approximately 5,879,454 shares of our common stock, preferred stock convertible into 18,000 shares of our common stock and debt convertible into approximately 7,136,111 shares of our common stock. Furthermore, the documents governing our convertible debt have anti-dilution provisions, pursuant to which the conversion price is reduced if we sell common stock at a price below the conversion price, which is now $3.60 per share. The secured notes provide “full ratchet” anti-dilution protection until May 25, 2009 and “weighted average” anti-dilution protection thereafter. The holders of our 5% notes also have “full ratchet” anti-dilution protection until maturity of the notes. In addition, some of our warrants contain weighted average anti-dilution provisions that would lower the exercise price and increase the number of shares issuable upon exercise if we sell stock at a price below $4.35. Unlike ordinary anti-dilution provisions, “full ratchet” anti-dilution provisions have the effect of extending a “lowest price guarantee” to the holders of the secured notes and the 5% notes. If the holders of these securities convert the notes or exercise the options and warrants, we will issue shares of our common stock and such issuances will be dilutive to our stockholders. Because the conversion price of the notes and the exercise price of the warrants may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the anti-dilution provisions of the notes and the warrants, the number of shares that could actually be issued may be greater than the amount described above. In addition, if such investors or our other stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market during a short period of time, our stock price may decline significantly. The price of our common stock may decline because a substantial amount of our common stock is available for trading in the public market. Availability of shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. A substantial amount of common stock is available for trading in the public market. This amount of stock in the market may cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, if our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. We also have issued options, warrants and convertible securities that can be exercised for, or converted to, shares of common stock, many of which would be freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act. There were approximately 20,386,816 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006, of which approximately 9,329,390 shares were freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act. Silver Star, our majority stockholder, has the right to require us to register under the Securities Act their resale of all 9,836,430 shares of common stock that it owns, as soon as practicable after Silver Star requests that registration, of which 220,589 were registered on our registration statement (File No. 333-133468) that was declared effective on July 14, 2006. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 