ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements or could result in a significant or material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Adverse changes in real estate activity may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The demand for the Company’s title insurance and other real estate transaction products and services varies over time and from year to year and is dependent upon, among other factors, the volume of commercial and residential real estate transactions and mortgage financing and refinancing transactions. The volume of these transactions has historically been influenced by factors such as the state of the overall economy, the average price level of real estate sales and the availability and pricing of mortgage financing. During an economic downturn or period of economic uncertainty, or when the availability of mortgage credit is limited or when mortgage interest rates are increasing, real estate activity typically declines. The cyclical nature of the Company’s business has caused volatility in revenue and profitability in the past and could do so in the future. Demand for title insurance also depends in part upon the requirement by mortgage lenders and other participants in the secondary mortgage market that title insurance policies be obtained on residential and commercial real property. The Company may experience material losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct. Fraud, defalcation and other misconduct by the Company’s agents, approved attorneys and employees are risks inherent in the Company’s business. Agents and approved attorneys typically handle large sums of money in trusts pursuant to the closing of real estate transactions. Misappropriation of funds by any of these parties could result in severe title claims. During the early years of the recent economic downturn, the Company experienced abnormally high losses for policies that were issued in 2006 and 2008 due to these factors. Continuation of challenging economic conditions or economic uncertainty could result in further abnormal loss experience from fraud, defalcation and misconduct. Adverse deviation from expected claims experience will result in lower net earnings. The Company’s net income is affected by the extent to which its actual claims experience differs from the assumptions used in establishing reserves for claims. Reserves for claims are established based on actuarial estimates of how much the Company will need to pay for reported claims, as well as claims which have been incurred but not yet reported. In addition, management considers factors such as the Company’s historical claims experience, case reserve estimates on reported claims, large claims and other relevant factors in determining loss provision rates and the aggregate recorded expected liability for claims. Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of reserves for claims, the Company cannot determine precisely the amounts which it will ultimately pay to settle its claims. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions used in establishing such liabilities, the Company could be required to increase reserves. Since title claims are often complex with widely varying dollar loss potentials, the ultimate exposure is often uncertain. Therefore, reserve estimates are subject to variability. Unfavorable economic conditions can lead to an increase in title insurance claims due to higher levels of defaults and foreclosures upon insured properties. In addition, the Company may experience unexpected large losses periodically which require an increase in loss reserves. 9 Deterioration of economic and credit markets or economic uncertainty may cause a decline in the performance of the Company’s investments and could have a material adverse impact on net income. The Company and its subsidiaries derive a substantial portion of their income from short-term investments and investments in investment grade municipal and corporate bonds and equity securities. The Company’s investment policy is designed to balance the competing objectives of asset quality and investment income. Changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, activity levels in securities markets and other external factors could adversely affect the value of the Company’s investment portfolio and, in turn, the Company’s operating results and financial condition. In recent years, economic and credit market conditions have adversely affected the ability of some issuers of debt securities to repay their obligations and have affected the market values of the underlying securities. If the carrying value of the Company’s investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the Company will be required to write down the value of its investments, which would negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies upon North Carolina for a significant portion of its premiums and profitability. Changes in the economic or regulatory environments in North Carolina could have an adverse impact on the Company. North Carolina is the largest source of premium revenue for the title insurance subsidiaries and, in 2012, represented approximately 30.6% of total premiums earned by the Company. A decrease in the level of real estate activity in North Carolina driven either by depressed economic conditions, changes in regulatory environments or other factors that could influence demand, could have a disproportionately negative impact on the Company’s financial results. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex government regulations. Changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations that are intended to protect policyholders and consumers. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), created by the Dodd-Frank Act, enforces the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”), the primary federal regulatory guidance covering the real estate settlement industry. The nature and extent of state regulations, which vary from state to state, typically involve, among other matters, licensing and renewal requirements and trade and marketing practices, including, but not limited to the following: ● licensing of insurers and agents; ● capital and surplus requirements; ● approval of premium rates for insurance; ● limitations on types and amounts of investments; ● limitations on the size of risks that may be insured by a single company; ● filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition; ● the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries; ● establishing reserves; ● accounting and financing practices; ● deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; ● trade and marketing practices; ● regulation of insurance; ● approval of policy forms; and ● use of personal information. Insurance holding companies are subject to the regulation of intercompany transactions, changes in control and acquisitions, among others, by state regulators. The Company’s other businesses also operate within state and federal guidelines. Any changes in the regulatory environment could restrict its existing or future operations or make it more burdensome to conduct them. 10 Title insurance rate regulation could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Rates for title insurance vary by state and are subject to extensive regulation. The process of implementing a rate change in most states involves pre-approval by the applicable state insurance regulator. This regulation could impact the Company’s ability to adjust prices in the face of rapidly changing market conditions, which could adversely affect results of operations. A downgrade from a rating agency could result in a loss of underwriting business. The competitive positions of title insurance companies rely partly on ratings of their financial strength and claims-paying ability issued by independent rating agencies. These ratings are periodically reviewed and may change from time to time. A significant downgrade in the ratings of either of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries could negatively impact its ability to compete for new business and retain existing business and maintain licenses necessary to operate as title insurance companies in various states. Competition affects the Company’s results of operations. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. Key competitive factors in the title insurance industry are quality of service, price within regulatory parameters, expertise, timeliness and the financial strength and size of the insurer. Title companies compete for premiums by choosing various distribution channels which may include company-owned operations and issuing agency relationships with attorneys, lenders, realtors, builders and other settlement service providers. Title insurance underwriters compete for agents on the basis of service, technology and commission levels. Some title insurers currently have greater financial resources, larger distribution networks and more extensive computerized databases of property records and information than the Company. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which the Company operates. Competition among the major providers of title insurance or the acceptance of new alternatives to traditional title products by the marketplace could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial condition. The Company may encounter difficulties managing technology changes, which could adversely affect its financial and operating results. Technological changes in the title insurance industry are driven by competitive factors and regulatory changes. Competition and technological advancements have resulted in faster information delivery and efficient, highly automated production processes. The inability of the Company to manage, develop and successfully implement new or existing technology could negatively impact profitability. Interruptions of services or unauthorized intrusions into the Company’s systems could corrupt or interfere with the transfer of data and negatively impact the Company’s operations and financial condition. The Company depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel and agents, and its inability to do so could adversely affect its business. Competition for skilled and experienced personnel in the Company’s industry is high, and the success of the Company is substantially dependent on its ability to attract and retain such personnel. The Company may have difficulty hiring the necessary marketing and management personnel to support any future growth. The loss of a key employee or the failure of a key employee to perform could prevent the Company from realizing its growth potential. Also, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in attracting and retaining new agents. Insurance regulations limit the ability of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to the holding company. The Company is an insurance holding company and it has no substantial operations of its own. Its principal assets are investments in its operating subsidiaries. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and meet its obligations is dependent, among other factors, on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay intercompany loans. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit the amount of dividends, loans or advances they can make to the Company. The restriction on these amounts is based on the amount of the insurance subsidiaries’ unassigned surplus and net income, with certain adjustments. Additionally, these subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum amounts of capital, surplus and reserves. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $76,167,000 of consolidated stockholders’ equity represents the net assets of the Company’s subsidiaries that cannot be transferred in the form of dividends, loans or advances to the Company. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require prior approval by the appropriate regulatory body. These dividend restrictions could limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders or fund growth opportunities. 11 Regulatory investigations of the title insurance industry by governmental entities could result in legislation that could adversely impact our results of operations. The title insurance industry is currently being scrutinized by both federal and state governmental agencies as to whether insurance codes of the various jurisdictions and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and similar state, federal and foreign laws, among others, have been violated by our competitors. To date, the Company has not received any inquiries; however, the results of these inquiries could lead to further regulation which could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company may encounter difficulties managing growth, which could adversely affect its results. The Company’s future growth plans involve expansion into new geographic locations and further penetration in its established markets. Expansion into new markets may subject the Company to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention and other risks related to establishing operations in new territories. Financial institution failures could adversely affect the Company. The Company has substantial deposits, including deposits that are owned by third parties with financial institutions. There is no guarantee the Company, whether through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or otherwise, would recover the funds it has deposited should one or more of the financial institutions at which the Company maintains deposits fail. The Company could be adversely affected by the possible reform of government-sponsored enterprises. The federal government is currently in discussions regarding reform of The Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac often require the purchase of title insurance for home loans that they securitize. Changes to these entities could impact the entire mortgage loan process and as a result, could impact the demand for title insurance. The timing and results of reform are currently unknown; however, changes to these entities could adversely impact the Company and its results of operations. Certain provisions of the Company’s shareholder rights plan may deter or discourage a takeover of the Company. The Company has adopted a shareholders rights plan. The rights set forth in the plan are not intended to prevent a takeover of the Company, and we believe the rights would be beneficial to the Company and its shareholders in the event of negotiations with a potential acquirer. However, the shareholder rights plan could discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that may involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to the Company’s common shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 