ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein or incorporated by reference could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are susceptible to housing markets and changes in mortgage interest rates and general economic conditions and seasonality. The demand for the Company’s title insurance and other real estate transaction products and services is dependent upon, among other things, the volume of commercial and residential real estate transactions, including mortgage refinancing transactions. The volume of these transactions has historically been influenced by factors such as mortgage interest rates and the state of the overall economy. When mortgage interest rates are high or increasing or during an economic downturn or recession, real estate activity typically declines and the title insurance industry tends to experience lower revenues and profitability. The cyclical nature of the Company’s business can cause fluctuations in revenues and profitability. Revenues from the Company’s exchange services segment may also be closely related to the level of real estate transactions, such as real estate sales and mortgage refinancing transactions. The Company’s revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond its control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. Historically, real estate transactions have produced seasonal revenue levels for title insurers, with residential real estate activity generally slower in the winter, when fewer families move or buy or sell homes. Therefore, the first calendar quarter is typically the weakest quarter in terms of revenue due to the generally low volume of home sales. Fluctuations in mortgage interest rates, as well as other economic factors, can cause shifts in real estate activity outside the normal seasonal pattern. Insurance regulations limit the ability of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to it. The Company is an insurance holding company and has no substantial operations of its own. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and meet its obligations is dependent among other things on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds to it. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance and other regulations that limit the amount of dividends, loans or advances to it based on the amount of adjusted unassigned surplus and net income and require these subsidiaries to maintain minimum amounts of capital, surplus and reserves. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require prior insurance regulatory approval. 12 These dividend restrictions could limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders or grow its business. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $63,412,000 of the consolidated stockholders' equity represented net assets of the Company’s subsidiaries that cannot be transferred in the form of dividends, loans or advances to the parent company under statutory regulations without prior insurance department approval. For further discussion of the regulation of dividend payments and other transactions between affiliates, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this report. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to additional complex state government regulations. The Company’s title insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These regulations are primarily intended for the protection of policyholders. The nature and extent of these regulations typically involve, among other matters, licensing and renewal requirements and trade and marketing practices. These regulations may restrict the Company’s ability to implement rate increases or other actions that it may want to take to enhance its operating results or have a negative impact on its ability to generate revenue and earnings. The Company’s non-insurance subsidiaries are also subject to state and federal regulations. The Company’s other businesses operate within state and federal guidelines. Any changes in the applicable regulatory environment or changes in existing regulations could restrict its existing or future operations. Exchange services are provided pursuant to provisions in the Internal Revenue Code. In February 2006, the IRS proposed new regulations which, if adopted, may negatively affect the ability of qualified intermediaries to retain interest earned on exchange funds they are holding. The performance of the Company’s investments depends on conditions that are outside its control. A majority of the Company’s investments consist of fixed-maturity securities. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse impact on the market value of the Company’s investment portfolio and its return on invested cash and could reduce the value of its investment portfolio and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. A smaller percentage of total investments are in equities. A change in general economic conditions, the stock market, or many other external factors could adversely affect the value of these investments and, in turn, the Company’s results and financial condition. The Company may encounter difficulties managing growth, which could adversely affect its results. The Company has historically achieved growth through a combination of developing related new products or services and increasing its market share for existing products. A portion of the Company’s growth may be in services or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than with its core business and geographic areas. The expansion of the Company’s business, particularly in new services or geographic areas, may subject it to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. 13 Competition in the Company’s business affects its revenues. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. Title companies compete by choosing various distribution network channels which may include affiliations with lenders, builders, and settlement providers. Key factors that affect competition in the title insurance business are price, expertise, timeliness and quality of service and the financial strength and size of the insurer. Title insurance underwriters also compete for agents on the basis of service and commission levels. Some title insurers currently have greater financial resources, larger distribution networks and more extensive computerized databases than the Company. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which it operates. Competition among the major providers of title insurance, new entrants to the industry or the introduction and acceptance of new alternatives to traditional title products by the marketplace could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial condition. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel and agents. Competition for skilled and experienced personnel and agents in the Company’s industry is high. The Company may have difficulty hiring the necessary marketing, sales and management personnel to support any future growth. The loss of any key employee or the failure of any key employee to perform in their current position could prevent the Company from realizing future growth. Also, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will succeed in attracting or retaining new agents. Its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. Differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s earnings depend upon the extent to which its actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions used in establishing reserves for claims. Reserves for claims are established in part based on estimates by an independent actuary of how much the Company will need to pay for reported as well as incurred, but not yet reported claims. In addition, management considers factors such as the Company's historical claims experience, case reserve estimates on reported claims, large claims and other relevant factors in determining loss provision rates and the aggregate recorded expected liability for claims. Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of reserves for claims, the Company cannot determine precisely the amounts which it will ultimately pay to settle its claims. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions used in establishing such liabilities, the Company could be required to increase reserves. The Company may experience significant claims relating to its title insurance operations which would adversely affect its results. A significant component of the Company’s revenue arises from issuing title insurance policies which typically provides coverage for the real property mortgage lender and the buyer of the property. The Company also may be subject to a legal claim arising from the handling of escrow transactions. The occurrence of a significant title or escrow claim in any given period could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations during that period. 14 A downgrade or a potential downgrade in one of the Company’s financial strength ratings could result in a loss of business. The competitive positions of insurance companies, in general, have come to depend increasingly on independent ratings of their financial strength and claims-paying ability. A significant downgrade in the ratings of either of the Company’s major policy-issuing subsidiaries could negatively impact their ability to compete for new business and retain existing business and adversely affect their results of operations. Regulatory and legal actions may result in financial losses and harm to the Company’s reputation. Regulation is also a risk factor for title insurers. The title insurance industry has recently been, and continues to be, under intense regulatory scrutiny in a number of states with respect to pricing practices, and possible Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”) violations and unlawful rebating practices. The regulatory investigations have resulted in settlements and fines for other underwriters and could lead to industry-wide reductions in premium rates and escrow fees, the inability to get rate increases when necessary, as well as to changes that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete for or retain business or raise the costs of additional regulatory compliance. The Company may experience losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct. Fraud, defalcation and misconduct by agents and approved attorneys are risks inherent in the Company’s business. Agents and approved attorneys typically handle large sums of money in trust pursuant to the closing of real estate transactions and a misappropriation of funds by any of these parties could result in title claims. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 