ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein or incorporated by reference could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are susceptible to the changing level of demand for title insurance which is based on the level of real estate activity, the volume of mortgage refinancing transactions, changes in the requirements of lenders and other participants in the market, and other potential factors. The demand for the Company’s title insurance and other real estate transaction products and services is dependent upon, among other things, the volume of commercial and residential real estate transactions and mortgage refinancing transactions. The volume of these transactions has historically been influenced by factors such as mortgage interest rates and the state of the overall economy. When mortgage interest rates are increasing or during an economic downturn or recession, real estate activity typically declines and the title insurance industry tends to experience lower revenues and profitability. The cyclical nature of the Company’s business has caused fluctuations in revenues and profitability in the past and is expected to do so in the future. Volume is a key factor in the Company’s profitability due to the existence of fixed costs such as personnel and occupancy expenses associated with the support of the issuance of title insurance policies and of general corporate operations. The volume of real estate transactions also depends in part upon the requirements of mortgage lenders and participants in the secondary mortgage market that title insurance policies be obtained on residential and commercial real property. Home sales and mortgage lending are highly cyclical businesses. Historically, real estate transactions have produced seasonal revenue levels for title insurers, with residential real estate activity generally slower in the winter, when fewer families move or buy or sell homes. Therefore, the first calendar quarter is typically the weakest quarter in terms of revenue due to the generally low volume of home sales. Fluctuations in mortgage interest rates, as well as other economic factors, can cause shifts in real estate activity outside the normal seasonal pattern. 13 Differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s net income depends upon the extent to which its actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions used in establishing reserves for claims. Reserves for claims are established based on estimates by an independent actuary of how much the Company will need to pay for reported as well as incurred, but not yet reported claims. In addition, management considers factors such as the Company’s historical claims experience, case reserve estimates on reported claims, large claims and other relevant factors in determining loss provision rates and the aggregate recorded expected liability for claims. Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of reserves for claims, the Company cannot determine precisely the amounts which it will ultimately pay to settle its claims. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions used in establishing such liabilities, the Company could be required to increase reserves. Title claims can often be complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions and may involve uncertainties as to ultimate exposure, and therefore, reserve estimates are subject to variability. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex government regulations. The Company’s title insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These regulations are primarily intended for the protection of policyholders. The nature and extent of these regulations typically involve, among other matters, licensing and renewal requirements and trade and marketing practices. These regulations may restrict the Company’s ability to implement rate increases or other actions that it may want to take to enhance its operating results or have a negative impact on its ability to generate revenue and earnings. Insurance regulations limit the ability of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to it. The Company is an insurance holding company and has no substantial operations of its own. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and meet its obligations is dependent among other things on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or repay funds to it. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance and other regulations that limit the amount of dividends, loans or advances to it based on the amount of adjusted unassigned surplus and net income and require these subsidiaries to maintain minimum amounts of capital, surplus and reserves. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require prior insurance regulatory approval. These dividend restrictions could limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders or grow its business. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $66,180,000 of the consolidated stockholders' equity represented net assets of the Company’s subsidiaries that cannot be transferred in the form of dividends, loans or advances to the parent company under statutory regulations without prior insurance department approval. For further discussion of the regulation of dividend payments and other transactions between affiliates, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this report. 14 The Company’s non-insurance subsidiaries are also subject to state and federal regulations. Some of the Company’s other businesses operate within state and federal guidelines. Any changes in the applicable regulatory environment or changes in existing regulations could restrict its existing or future operations. Revenues from the Company’s exchange services segment are closely related to the level of real estate transactions, the tax rate on capital gains and other changes in the Internal Revenue Code. The Company’s revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond its control. In February 2006, the IRS proposed new regulations which, if adopted, may negatively affect the ability of qualified intermediaries to retain interest earned on exchange funds they are holding. If passed as proposed, these regulations would materially adversely impact the exchange services segment and the Company’s net income, since a significant portion of the exchange segment’s revenues are based on retaining a portion of the interest income earned on deposits held by the Company. In addition, the investment management and trust services division is regulated by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. The performance of the Company’s investments depends on conditions that are outside its control. A majority of the Company’s investments consist of fixed-maturity securities. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse impact on the market value of the Company’s investment portfolio and its return on invested cash and could reduce the value of its investment portfolio and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. A smaller percentage of total investments are in equities. A change in general economic conditions, the stock market, or other external factors could adversely affect the value of these investments and, in turn, the Company’s results and financial condition. The Company may encounter difficulties managing growth or rapid technology changes, which could adversely affect its results. The Company has historically achieved revenue growth in part through a combination of developing related new products or services and increasing its market share for existing products. A portion of the Company’s growth may be in services or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than with its core business and geographic areas. The expansion of the Company’s business, particularly in new services or geographic areas, or significant changes in technology may subject it to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention, lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses and a change in competitive position resulting from rapid technology changes. Competition in the Company’s business affects its revenues. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. Key factors that affect competition in the title insurance business are price, expertise, timeliness and quality of service and the financial strength and size of the insurer. Title companies compete for premiums by choosing various distribution channels which may include company-owned operations and issuing agency relationships with attorneys, lenders, realtors, builders and other settlement service providers. Title insurance underwriters compete for agents on the basis of service and commission levels. Some title insurers currently have greater financial resources, larger distribution networks and more extensive computerized databases of property records and related information than the Company. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which we operate. Competition among the major providers of title insurance, new entrants to the industry or the introduction and acceptance of new alternatives to traditional title products by the marketplace could adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial condition. 15 The Company’s success relies on its ability to attract and retain key personnel and agents. Competition for skilled and experienced personnel and agents in the Company’s industry is high. The Company may have difficulty hiring the necessary marketing and management personnel to support any future growth. The loss of any key employee or the failure of any key employee to perform in their current position could prevent the Company from realizing future growth. Also, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will succeed in attracting or retaining new agents. Its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. The Company may experience significant claims relating to its title insurance operations which would adversely affect its results. A significant component of the Company’s revenue arises from issuing title insurance policies which typically provides coverage for the real property mortgage lender and the buyer of the property. The Company also may be subject to a legal claim arising from the handling of escrow transactions. The occurrence of a significant title or escrow claim in any given period could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations during that period. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in one of the Company’s financial strength ratings could result in a loss of business. The competitive positions of insurance companies, in general, have come to depend increasingly on independent ratings of their financial strength and claims-paying ability. A significant downgrade in the ratings of either of the Company’s policy-issuing subsidiaries could negatively impact its ability to compete for new business and retain existing business and lead to a decrease in the Company’s stock price, the loss of certain licenses ITIC and NE-ITIC need to operate as title insurance companies in various states and adversely affect results of operations. Regulatory and legal actions may result in financial losses and or harm to the Company’s reputation. The title insurance industry has recently been, and continues to be, under regulatory scrutiny in a number of states with respect to pricing practices, and possible Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”) violations and unlawful rebating practices. The regulatory investigations have resulted in settlements and fines for other underwriters and could lead to industry-wide reductions in premium rates and escrow fees, the inability to get rate increases when necessary, as well as changes that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete for or retain business or raise the costs of additional regulatory compliance. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is responsible for enforcing RESPA. While timing and content are uncertain, HUD continues to indicate that it would like to revise RESPA regulations which would result in changes to the existing industry regulatory framework that could have a material impact on the Company’s marketing and operations. 16 The Company may experience losses resulting from regulatory noncompliance, fraud, defalcation or misconduct. Fraud, defalcation, regulatory noncompliance and other misconduct by the Company’s agents, approved attorneys and employees are risks inherent in the Company’s business. Agents or approved attorneys typically handle large sums of money in trust pursuant to the closing of real estate transactions and a misappropriation of funds by any of these parties could result in title claims. The Company relies upon North Carolina for about 50% of its title insurance premiums. North Carolina is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance segment and, in 2006, North Carolina-based premiums accounted for approximately 50% of premiums earned by the Company. A decrease in North Carolina business would negatively impact financial operations. Key accounting and information systems are concentrated in a few locations. The Company’s home office, accounting and technology operations are concentrated in North Carolina. These critical business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages and other events beyond the Company’s control. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of the Company’s critical business operations or systems could severely affect its ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, there could be a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Provisions of the Company’s shareholder rights plan may make a takeover of our company difficult. The Company has a shareholders rights plan which could discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to the Company’s shareholders for their common shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 17 ITEM 