ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and an investment in our common stock. Additionally, the following risk factors could cause our actual results to materially differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. Our revenues may be adversely affected if our largest customers reduce orders. The Company’s four largest customers accounted for over 50% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006. Significant reductions in sales to any of these customers due to industry consolidation, loss in market share, selection of an additional supply source, the in-house production of components, change in medical procedures, customer quality problems or excess customer supply could dramatically reduce the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash needed to fund operations. Our production may be reduced by an inability to obtain the necessary raw materials. The Company obtains its SMAs from one principal source. The Company expects to be able to continue to acquire SMAs in sufficient quantities for its needs from this supplier. In addition, if the Company were, for whatever reason, not able to secure an adequate supply of SMAs from this supplier, the Company has identified other suppliers that would be able to supply the Company with sufficient quantities of SMAs, although it is likely the Company would suffer meaningful transitional difficulties for certain products if it had to switch to an alternate supplier. Additionally, the Company obtains its polymers from four principal sources. The Company expects to be able to continue to acquire polymers in sufficient quantities for its needs from these suppliers. A reduction in production due to an inability to obtain the necessary raw materials could dramatically reduce the Company’s revenues, profitability and cash needed to fund operations until production is restored. Our revenues and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not achieve future growth projections if we fail to compete successfully against our competitors. The Company faces competition from other SMA processors, who compete with the Company in the sale of semi-finished materials and formed components. There are several major U.S., European and Japanese companies engaged in the supply or use of SMAs, some of which have substantially greater resources than the Company. Within the U.S., the two major SMA suppliers to both the Company and the industry as a whole have substantially greater resources than the Company. Each of these companies could determine that it wishes to compete with the Company in the Company’s markets. One of them has become a competitor of the Company for semi-finished wire and strip materials. The Company also faces competition in the specialty polymer-extrusion sector. There are three companies that compete with the Company in a broad range of specialty polymer extrusion products and one additional company that competes with us primarily in the Polyimide product line. The Company intends to compete and advance its position based primarily on its manufacturing capabilities, its proprietary intellectual property positions, its knowledge of the processing parameters of the alloys and polymers, and its unique design and assembly capabilities, particularly in the medical device field. However, our competitors may also continue to improve their products, implement manufacturing efficiencies and develop new competing products. We may be unable to compete effectively with our competitors if we cannot keep up with existing or new alternative products, techniques, and technology in the markets we serve. These new technologies and products may beat our products to the market, be more effective than our products, be less costly than our products or render our products obsolete by substantially reducing the applications for our products. It is likely that this competitive activity will result in downward pressure on our sales prices and have a negative impact on gross margins. We may experience an interruption in sales of a product and incur costs if the customers’ products are recalled. The majority of the Company’s products are used in the medical device industry. In the event that any of our customers’ products present a health hazard to the patient or physician or fail to meet product performance criteria or specifications, this could result in a recall of the products, thereby resulting in a loss of our revenue and an adverse impact on our profitability. 12 Table of Contents In the event of a claim that we infringe upon another company’s intellectual property rights, we could incur significant costs and/or be required to stop the sale of the related product. The U.S. business environment is highly litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Although the Company’s technical staff is generally familiar with the patent environment relevant to the Company’s product lines and has reviewed patent searches when considered relevant, the Company cannot be certain whether any of its current or contemplated products would infringe any existing patents. Companies have used intellectual property litigation to seek to gain a competitive advantage. In the future, we may become a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. A legal proceeding, regardless of the outcome, would draw upon our financial resources and divert the time and efforts of our management. If we are unsuccessful in one of these proceedings, a court, or a similar foreign governing body, could require us to pay significant damages to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our products, or prevent us from manufacturing, using or selling our products. In addition to being costly, protracted litigation to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until the litigation is resolved. Quality problems with our processes, goods and services could harm our reputation for producing high quality products and erode our competitive advantage. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue would decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage would be damaged, and we would lose customers and market share. Consolidation in the medical device industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many medical device companies are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the medical device industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may be able to produce components currently provided by us or they may be able to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for components produced by us. If we lose market share due to in-house production by customers or replacement by a competitor, or if we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the medical device industry, our revenues would decrease and our earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows would suffer. Loss of any of our manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our financial position. We are currently operating at three production facilities, two for SMAs and one for specialty polymers. Although we believe we have adequate physical capacity to serve our business operations for the foreseeable future, we do not have a back up facility for any of the locations. The loss of any facility would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows. A loss of key personnel could have an adverse affect on our revenues and results of operations. The Company’s future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including research, technical, marketing and management positions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully retain and attract the key personnel it needs. Further, many of the Company’s key personnel receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish the Company’s use, and the value, of the Company’s equity awards, putting the Company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the Company to use more cash compensation. The loss of key personnel could have a material effect on our revenues, earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows. An inability to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect investor confidence and, as a result, our stock price. The Company may be required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) as early as June 30, 2007. Although the Company has begun to implement the procedures to comply with the 13 Table of Contents requirements of Section 404, there is no assurance that we will have a successful initial implementation. Failure to meet the initial implementation requirements of Section 404, our inability to comply with Section 404’s requirements, and the costs of ongoing compliance could have a material adverse effect on investor confidence and our stock price. The Company has debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in its debt agreements. The Company’s existing debt agreements contain a number of significant restrictive covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money; pay dividends; redeem stock; and enter into mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures. The covenants also require the Company to maintain compliance with fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios, as defined. While the Company is currently in compliance with all the foregoing covenants, increases in our debt or decreases in our earnings could cause the Company to be in default of these financial covenants. If the Company is unable to comply with theses covenants, there would be a default under these debt agreements. In addition, changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could cause the Company to default under its debt agreements. A default, if not amended or waived by our lenders, could result in acceleration of the Company’s debt and place a severe strain on our liquidity. 