Item 1A. Risk Factors This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, concerning, among other things, our outlook, financial projections and business strategies, all of which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “should” and similar terms. These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. Such statements are subject to, among other things, overall demand for and pricing of the Company’s products and services, general economic and business conditions, the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities, global economic growth and activity, political stability of oil-producing countries, finding and development costs of operations, decline and depletion rates for oil and natural gas wells, seasonal weather conditions, industry conditions, changes in laws or regulations, and other risk factors that are discussed below, many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those expected, estimated or projected. Management believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable. However, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based only on our current expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of them in light of new information, future events or otherwise. You should consider the following important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related To Our Business The significant deterioration in the global business environment and related factors could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The deterioration in the global business environment has led to a significant reduction in commodity prices from average levels reported in 2008, which has contributed to lower cash flow generation for oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. In addition, the reduction in the availability and increased cost of financing which began in the second half of 2008 had a significant impact on a number of our customers. These factors, if continued or worsened, could contribute to a sustained or further decline in our customers’ spending levels. As a result, we must manage our costs, including our workforce levels, to match the decline. A continued reduction in the level of future investment or our inability to reduce our costs sufficiently to match the material slowdown in drilling activity could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, if the business environment experiences a significant deterioration from current levels, we may be required to record goodwill and/or other intangible asset impairment losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our compliance with applicable debt covenants. The financial and credit market environment may limit our ability to expand our business through acquisitions and to fund necessary expenditures. The global financial and credit market environment has, at times, limited the availability of financing and increased costs when available. Any inability to access the credit and capital markets could limit our ability to make significant business acquisitions and pursue business opportunities. On February 21, 2010, we and Schlumberger entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger pursuant to which a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger will merge with and into us and we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger. If the Merger is not consummated, either we or our M-I SWACO joint venture partner, Schlumberger, can offer to sell to the other party its entire ownership interest in the joint venture in exchange for a cash purchase price specified by the offering partner. If the initiating partner’s offer to sell is not accepted, such party is obligated to purchase the other party’s interest at the same valuation per interest. If we agree to purchase Schlumberger’s joint venture interest, whether pursuant to these provisions or otherwise, we would need to fund the transaction. Our funding could include issuing equity, resulting in dilution to our existing stockholders, obtaining additional debt, which may require waivers of applicable debt covenants, or obtaining other financing, as well as using available cash to fund the purchase. This financing and/or use of cash could impact our ability to fund working capital requirements, make capital 8 Table of Contents expenditures and investments or fund other general corporate requirements, and could limit our ability to make future acquisitions. Should we instead not purchase Schlumberger’s interest, we would no longer have an interest in the joint venture. The failure to pursue significant acquisition opportunities, or the consequences of seeking waivers, issuing equity or obtaining other financing, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are dependent on the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Demand for our products and services is dependent upon the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. The level of worldwide oil and natural gas development activities is primarily influenced by the price of oil and natural gas, as well as price expectations. The current state of world economies could lead to further weakness in exploration and production spending levels, further reducing demand for our products and services and adversely impacting future results. In addition to oil and natural gas prices, the following factors impact exploration and development activity and may lead to significant changes in worldwide activity levels: • overall level of global economic growth and activity; • actual and perceived changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • political stability and policies of oil-producing countries; • finding and development costs of operators; • decline and depletion rates for oil and natural gas wells; • seasonal weather conditions that temporarily curtail drilling operations; and • laws and regulations related to environmental or energy security matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate change. Changes in any of these factors could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A significant portion of our revenue is derived in markets outside of North America. We are a multinational oilfield service company and generate the majority of our oilfield-related revenues in markets outside of North America. Changes in conditions within certain countries that have historically experienced a high degree of political and/or economic instability could adversely impact our operations in such countries and as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additional risks inherent in our non-North American business activities include: • changes in political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including civil uprisings, riots and terrorist acts; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements affecting oil and natural gas exploration and development activities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the value of the U.S. dollar; • restrictions on repatriation of earnings or expropriation of property without fair compensation; • governmental actions that result in the deprivation of contract or proprietary rights in the countries in which we operate; and • governmental sanctions. We operate in a highly technical and competitive environment. We operate in a highly competitive business environment. Accordingly, demand for our products and services is largely dependent on our ability to provide leading-edge, technology-based solutions that reduce the operator’s overall cost of developing energy assets and to commercialize performance-driven new technology. If competitive 9 Table of Contents or other market conditions impact our ability to continue providing superior-performing product offerings, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Regulatory compliance costs and liabilities could adversely impact our earnings and cash available for operations. We are exposed to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to matters such as the use of hazardous materials, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export control, currency exchange, bribery, corruption and taxation, and the environment, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, wastewater discharges and waste management. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For example, the adoption of more stringent laws and regulations that curtailed either directly or indirectly the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our products and services. Our industry is experiencing more litigation involving claims of infringement of intellectual property rights. Over the past years, the industry in which we operate has experienced increased litigation related to the infringement of intellectual property rights. Although no material matters are pending or threatened at this time, we, as well as certain of our competitors, have been named as defendants in various intellectual property matters in the past. These types of claims are typically costly to defend, involve the risk of monetary judgments that, in certain circumstances, are subject to being enhanced and are often brought in venues that have proved to be favorable to plaintiffs. If we are served with any intellectual property claims that we are unsuccessful in defending, it could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Commerce Department. Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and the Commerce Department. The FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign officials or parties and requires public companies in the United States to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies’ transactions. OFAC and the Commerce Department administer and enforce economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm, and incarceration of our employees or restrictions on our operations. We have received an administrative subpoena with respect to our historical business practices in Iran and Sudan. We are conducting a review of our business activities involving Iran and Sudan, and are actively pursuing the termination of all business activities in Iran and Sudan. While the nature and scope of issues that may emerge from this review are yet to be determined, there is a risk that we could identify violations of U.S. sanctions laws, which if pursued by regulatory authorities, could result in administrative or criminal penalties which in certain circumstances could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change. Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions are the subject of a significant attention within and outside the United States. Future environmental regulatory developments (such as restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls) could adversely influence the cost of and demand for oil and natural gas. A reduction in demand for these commodities may result in a decline in exploration and production spending by our customers, which in turn could adversely impact demand and pricing for our products and services. Additionally, restrictions on emissions or other climate change related mandates could result in significant increases in the cost of our goods and services. There is no assurance that in response to escalating expenses, we could increase our prices to customers sufficiently to mitigate the financial impact 10 Table of Contents of such cost expansion. These factors, individually or together, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Schlumberger Our ability to complete the Schlumberger Merger is subject to stockholder approval, certain closing conditions and the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities which may impose conditions that could adversely affect us or cause the Merger to be abandoned. The Merger Agreement contains certain closing conditions including approval of the Merger by Smith stockholders, the absence of injunctions or other legal restrictions and that no material adverse effect shall have occurred to either company. In addition, we will be unable to complete the merger until we receive approvals from the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the European Commission and various other governmental entities. Regulatory entities may impose certain requirements or obligations as conditions for their approval. The Merger Agreement may require us to accept conditions from these regulators that could adversely impact the combined company. We can provide no assurance that we will satisfy the various closing conditions and obtain the necessary approvals or that any required conditions will not materially adversely affect us following the Merger. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions will not result in the abandonment or delay of the Merger. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact us. If the Merger is not completed, our ongoing businesses and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks, including being required, under certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $340 million; having to pay certain costs relating to the proposed merger, and diverting the focus of management from pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to us, in each case, without realizing any of the benefits of having the Merger completed. The pendency of the Merger could adversely affect us. In connection with the pending Merger, some of our customers may delay or defer purchasing decisions, which could negatively impact our revenues, earnings and cash flows regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Additionally, we have agreed in the Merger Agreement to refrain from taking certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs during the pendency of the Merger, which restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if completion of the Merger is delayed and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The combined company could incur substantial expenses related to the integration of the Company and Schlumberger. We expect that the combined company will incur substantial expenses in connection with integrating our business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems with those of Schlumberger. There are a large number of systems that must be integrated, including information management, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll and benefits, fixed asset and lease administration systems and regulatory compliance. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond the control of Schlumberger or us that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings and revenue enhancements related to the integration of the businesses following the completion of the Merger. These integration expenses may result in the combined company taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the Merger. 11 Table of Contents Following the Merger, the combined company may be unable to successfully integrate our business and Schlumberger’s business and realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. The Merger involves the combination of two companies which currently operate as independent public companies. The combined company will be required to devote management attention and resources to integrating its business practices and operations. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully integrate our business into Schlumberger’s business in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the Merger, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the Merger not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; • lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company; • integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the Merger; and • performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the Merger and integrating the companies’ operations. In addition, we and Schlumberger have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the diversion of each company’s management attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger, or could reduce the earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. We and Schlumberger may be unable to retain key employees. In connection with the pending Merger, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the Merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the Merger. Additionally, our success after the Merger will depend in part upon our ability to retain key Schlumberger and Smith employees. Key employees may depart either before or after the Merger because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the Merger. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key employees to the same extent that we or Schlumberger have been able to in the past. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 