D. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 5.D. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Trend Information” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these factors. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to intense competition in many of the markets in which we operate, which may subject us to intense price competition and could affect our sales. We are subject to intense competition in many of the markets in which we operate from various competitors ranging from large multinational corporations to relatively small, rapidly growing, and highly specialized companies. The entrance of additional competitors into the markets in which we operate increases the risk that our products and services will become subject to intense price competition. If we are unsuccessful in responding to intensified competition, our sales may be negatively affected. Our operating results may suffer if our production processes encounter problems or if we are not able to match our production capacity to fluctuating levels of demand. The computer, communications, semiconductor, and other markets in which we operate are characterized by the introduction of products with short life cycles in a rapidly changing technological environment. Production processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment, and must continuously be modified to improve yields and performance. Production difficulties or inefficiencies can reduce yields or interrupt production. If production is interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities quickly, and customers may purchase products from other suppliers. The resulting shortage of manufacturing capacity for some products could adversely affect our ability to compete. The resulting reductions in revenues and damage to customer relationships could be significant. In addition, during downturns, customers generally do not order products as far in advance of the scheduled shipment date as they do when the industry is operating closer to capacity, making it difficult to forecast production levels and revenues. The cyclical nature of the market for semiconductors, and the resulting periodic overcapacity, may seriously harm our results of operations. The market for semiconductors has a highly cyclical nature called a “silicon cycle” and has suffered occasional downturns. Downturns have been characterized by diminished demand, excess inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices. Although we operate our business while carefully monitoring the cycle of the market, future downswings of the silicon cycle may nevertheless have adverse effects on our operating results. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor market is due partly to periods of production overcapacity. In recent years, semiconductor companies, including specialist semiconductor foundries, have added significant capacity primarily in Asia. As a consequence, semiconductor production capacity may periodically exceed the demand for semiconductor products, exerting downward pressure on selling prices and reducing our revenues. If we fail to attract, hire, and retain skilled personnel, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. Like all technology companies, we must compete for talented employees to develop our products, services, and solutions in a market where the demand for such individuals exceeds the number of qualified candidates. As a result, our human resources organization focuses significant efforts on attracting and retaining individuals in key technology positions. If we experience a substantial loss of, or an inability to attract, talented personnel, we may experience difficulty in meeting our business objectives. Weak economic conditions in Japan and worldwide may harm our business. We are very dependent on the Japanese market. Sales to customers in Japan accounted for 76.0% of our total net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 and 73.2% of our total net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. Although the Japanese economy sustained steady growth in the first half of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, growth slowed as consumer spending became sluggish in the second half. If this weakness in the Japanese economy continues to prevail, it could have a significant impact on our financial results. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting depend upon estimates of growth in the markets that we serve, the prevailing economic uncertainty makes it more difficult than usual to estimate our future income and required expenditures. We depend also on markets outside Japan. Our business and results of operations are therefore also subject to negative economic developments in foreign economies. We face regulatory change and uncertainty, as well as potential legal liability, in many countries in which we operate. In many of the countries in which we operate, our business is subject to various risks associated with unexpected regulatory changes, uncertainty in the application of laws and governmental policies, and uncertainty relating to legal liabilities. Substantial changes in the regulatory or legal environments in which we operate could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Changes in Japanese and international telecommunications regulations and tariffs, including those related to Internet-related businesses and technologies, could affect the sales of our products or services, and this could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We endeavor to comply with laws and government policies, establishing self-management norms and conducting daily inspections and environmental auditing in accordance with NEC’s internal environmental policies. Our operations, however, are subject to many environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal, product recycling, and soil and ground water contamination. We face risks of environmental liability in our current, historical, and future manufacturing activities. Costs associated with future additional and stricter environmental compliance or remediation obligations could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability claims that could result in significant direct or indirect costs to us. There is a risk that defects may occur in our products and services. Many of our products and services are used in “mission critical” situations where the adverse consequences of failure would be severe, exposing us in some cases to even greater risk. The occurrence of these defects could make us liable for damages caused by these defects, including consequential damages. Negative publicity concerning these problems could also discourage customers from purchasing our products and services. Either situation could hurt our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating and financing activities expose us to foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Despite measures undertaken by us to reduce, or hedge against, foreign currency exchange risks, foreign exchange rate fluctuations may negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Changes in exchange rates can affect the yen value of our equity investments and monetary assets and liabilities arising from business transactions in foreign currencies. They can also affect the costs and sales proceeds of products or services that are denominated in foreign currencies. We are also exposed to risks of interest rate fluctuations. Despite measures undertaken by us to hedge a portion of our exposure against interest rate fluctuations, such fluctuations may increase our operational costs, reduce the value of our financial assets, or increase the value of our liabilities. Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may not succeed in implementing our mid-term growth strategies. We operate our business with our mid-term growth strategies implemented in October 2003, including: • pursuing growth opportunities in the information technology, or IT, solutions and services markets, particularly by leveraging our open system capabilities, strengthening our consulting capabilities, and enhancing our outsourcing and support services; • increasing our focus on network solutions to capitalize on the combined strengths of our communications networking products, our systems integration, or SI, service capabilities, and our customer base; • extending our leadership in mobile communications to global markets by building on our experience in the Japanese market; • continuing to enhance our efficiency through cost and restructuring initiatives; and • further improving our financial position by reducing our total debt and improving our balance sheet. Although we believe that our IT/Network Solutions business has great potential for growth, there can be no assurances that it may grow as much as we expect. In addition, severe competition from existing and new competitors may limit the benefits we are able to realize from our mid-term growth strategies. If we fail to keep pace with technological advances in our industry, or if we pursue technologies that do not become commercially accepted, customers may not buy our products and services, and our revenue and profitability may decline. The markets for the products and services that we offer are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving technical standards, changes in customer preferences, and the frequent introduction of new products and services. The development and commercialization of new technologies, and the introduction of new products and services will often make existing products and services obsolete or unmarketable. If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes and changes in customers’ needs or preferences, and to offer and support new products and services in response to such changes, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. The development process can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources well in advance of sales. Technology and standards may change while we are in the development stage, rendering our products obsolete or uncompetitive before their introduction. Our products, some of which contain both hardware and software, may contain undetected errors that may be discovered after their introduction and shipment. In addition, we may encounter difficulties incorporating our technologies into our products in accordance with our customers’ expectations, which in turn may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation, and our revenues. Our revenues and profitability can fluctuate from period to period, and are often difficult to predict for particular periods due to factors beyond our control. Our results of operations for any quarter or year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including: • the introduction and market acceptance of new technologies, products, and services; • variations in product costs, and the mix of products sold; • the size and timing of customer orders, which in turn will often depend upon the success of our customers’ businesses or specific products or services; • the impact of acquired businesses and technologies; • manufacturing capacity and lead times; and • fixed costs. There are other trends and factors beyond our control which may affect our operations, and make it difficult to predict operating results for a particular period. These include: • adverse changes in the conditions in the markets for semiconductors, personal computers, mobile handsets, and other products, and SI and other services that we offer; • governmental decisions regarding the development and deployment of communications and technology infrastructure, including the size and timing of governmental expenditures in these areas; • the size and timing of capital expenditures by our customers; • inventory practices of our customers; • conditions in the broader markets for IT and communications, and the Japanese or global economy generally; • changes in governmental regulation or intervention affecting communications, data networking, or the Internet; • adverse changes in the public and private equity and debt markets, and the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; and • adverse changes in the credit quality of our customers and suppliers. These trends and factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may not succeed in executing our mid-term growth strategies outside of Japan. Our mid-term growth strategies include expanding our business in markets outside of Japan. In many of these markets, we face barriers in the form of long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local suppliers, and protective regulations. In addition, pursuing international growth opportunities may require us to make significant investments long before we realize returns on the investments, if any. Increased investments may result in expenses growing at a faster rate than revenues. Our overseas projects and investments, particularly in China, could be adversely affected by: • exchange controls; • changes in restrictions on foreign investment; • changes in export or import restrictions or changes in the tax system or rate of taxation; and • economic, social, and political risks. Due to the above factors, we may not succeed in expanding our business in international markets, thereby adversely affecting our business growth prospects and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects may be harmed. We depend on our proprietary technology and our ability to obtain patents, licenses, and other intellectual property rights covering our products, services, business models, and design and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive. Although we have a large number of patents, our patents could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. The fact that we hold many patents or other intellectual property rights does not ensure that the rights granted under them will provide competitive advantages to us. For example, the protection afforded by our intellectual property rights, such as patents, patent applications, and copyrights, may be undercut by rapid changes in technologies in the industries in which we operate. Similarly, there can be no assurance that claims allowed on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Effective patent, copyright, and trade-secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some countries, and our trade secrets may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, contractors, and other persons. Litigation, which could consume financial and management resources, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement brought against us. Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain certain intellectual property licenses owned by third parties, our business could be adversely affected. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licenses from third parties. Competitors’ protected technology may be unavailable to us, or be made available to us only on unfavorable terms and conditions. If we are unable to obtain certain intellectual property licenses owned by third parties on reasonable terms and conditions or at all, our business could be adversely affected. We may become involved in costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, including intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, that may substantially increase our costs and harm our business. From time to time, we are involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings, including patent and other intellectual property infringement claims. Due to the existence of a large number of patents in our field and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is difficult to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components may infringe upon the patent rights of others. Regardless of whether claims against us have merit, they may require significant resources to defend against. If an infringement claim by a third party is successful, and the license for the infringed technology or substitutable non-infringing technology cannot be obtained, our business could be adversely affected. We may also from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings other than patent and other intellectual property infringement claims. We and several of our subsidiaries are currently engaged in a lawsuit with GE Warranty Management, Inc. The lawsuit seeks reimbursement of costs GE Warranty allegedly incurred in connection with warranty contracts that it issued to purchasers of personal computers previously manufactured by our two subsidiaries. NEC, Elpida Memory (USA), Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Elpida Memory, Inc., which was an affiliated company of NEC accounted for by the equity method until August 31, 2005, and NEC Electronics America, Inc., a subsidiary of NEC, are currently subject to an investigation being conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice into potential antitrust violations in the U.S. dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, industry. Separately, Elpida Memory, Elpida Memory (USA), NEC Electronics Corporation, and NEC Electronics America have been named in a number of class action civil antitrust lawsuits seeking damages for alleged antitrust violations. NEC Electronics America transferred substantially all of its DRAM business to Elpida Memory (USA) in March 2001. Elpida Memory (USA), however, did not assume the legal responsibilities or obligations relating to DRAM produced or sold by NEC Electronics America prior to such transfer. Elpida Memory is also subject to a similar investigation being conducted by the Director-General for Competition, Cartels Unit of the European Commission. In Japan, NEC received from the Tokyo High Court a judgment to annul a decision by the Fair Trade Commission of Japan, or the JFTC, to issue a cease and desist order with respect to NEC’s bids for automatic letter processing systems ordered by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (currently, Japan Post). The JFTC has filed an appeal with the Supreme Court of Japan with respect to such judgment. NEC has also attended hearings on the JFTC’s surcharge payment orders against NEC. These and other legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any legal proceedings which we are subject to could require the significant involvement of our senior management, and may divert management attention from our business and operations. For more information about current legal proceedings, see “Item 8.A. Financial Information — Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss due to a natural disaster or other unexpected events, our information systems or operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities and buildings in Japan possess an aseismatic design and we inspect them periodically in order to minimize the effects of earthquakes and other natural disasters. If any of these facilities were to suffer catastrophic damage, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue, and result in large losses and expenses to repair or replace the facility. In addition, as network and information systems become more important to our operating activities, network and information system shutdowns caused by unforeseen events such as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attack, hardware or software defects, computer viruses and computer hacking pose increasing risks. Accordingly, although we continue to take precautions, including the maintenance of backups, and other redundancies for major data centers, against such unforeseen risks in the event that our network and information systems were to suffer a shutdown, such events could also disrupt our operations, productions, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such network information systems. The failure of our suppliers to deliver raw materials, components, equipment, or other supplies as expected could hurt our business. Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining deliveries of raw materials, components, equipment, and other supplies in a timely manner. Because the products that we purchase are often complex or specialized, it may be difficult for us to substitute one supplier for another or one product for another. Some products are only available from a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier. Although we believe that we currently possess adequate supplies of the raw materials, components, equipment, and other supplies that we use, shortages in critical materials could occur due to an interruption in supply or an increase in industry demand. Our results of operations would be hurt if we could not obtain adequate delivery of these supplies in a timely manner, or if we had to pay significantly more for them. In addition, the possibility of defective raw materials, components, equipment, or other supplies could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products. We rely on our strategic partners, and our business could suffer if our strategic partners have problems, or our relationships with them change adversely. We have entered into a number of long-term strategic alliances with leading industry participants, both to develop new technologies and products, and to manufacture existing and new products. If our strategic partners encounter financial or other business difficulties, or if their strategic objectives change, they may no longer be willing or able to participate in these strategic alliances. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we were unable to continue one or more of our strategic alliances. Potential acquisitions and investments may require us to integrate new operations. From time to time, we consider opportunities to expand our business through acquisitions and investments. Any acquisition that we pursue exposes us to the risk that we might be unable to integrate new businesses with our culture and strategies. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to retain the customers of a business that we acquire or to retain its key employees. Further, we may not be able to achieve the benefits that we expect from a particular acquisition. Our business, operating results, and financial condition may suffer if we fail to coordinate our resources effectively to manage both our existing businesses and any businesses we may acquire. We conduct a substantial amount of business with the NTT group, which is comprised of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation and its subsidiaries, including NTT DoCoMo, Inc and its affiliates, and our business could suffer if it encounters business problems or decides to reduce its business with us. We derived approximately 13.4% of our net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 from the NTT group. If the NTT group were to reduce its level of capital expenditures or current procurement, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, although the NTT group does not engage in any material manufacturing at present, our business may be adversely affected if it began to manufacture products that we supply or acquired one of our competitors. We are exposed to the risk that our customers, including those to whom we have provided vendor financing, may encounter financial difficulties. We sometimes provide vendor financing to our customers, or provide guarantees to banks or trading companies that have provided vendor financing. In addition, many of our customers purchase products and services from us on payment terms that provide for deferred payment. If our customers, to whom we have extended or guaranteed vendor financing, or from whom we have substantial accounts receivable, encounter financial difficulties, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we were to determine that the discount rate used to measure benefit obligations should be lowered further or if the value of the securities constituting plan assets decline, the current amount of our outstanding pension benefit obligations would increase further. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, unrecognized prior service cost and actuarial loss have been amortized using the straight-line method over the average remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits under such plans. The amount of actuarial loss may change depending on future changes in the discount rate or other factors such as the return on plan assets. If we were to determine that the discount rate used to measure benefit obligations should be lowered further, the current amount of our outstanding pension benefit obligations would increase further. In addition, if the value of the securities constituting the plan assets decline in the future due to deterioration in stock or bond prices, our unfunded pension benefit obligations could increase. If personal information and confidential information in our possession is leaked or improperly accessed and subsequently misused, our reputation and brand value may be adversely affected and we may have to consume our financial resources to resolve the situation. We possess a voluminous amount of personal information and confidential information in connection with the operation of our business. Despite measures taken to protect the information, if that information in our possession is leaked or improperly accessed and subsequently misused, it could negatively affect our reputation, consume financial resources to resolve the situation, and lower our brand value, thereby hurting our operating results. Table of Contents 