Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Although it is not possible to predict all risks that may affect future results, these risks may include, but are not limited to, the following: Intense competition may erode the Company’s profit margins. The markets in which the Company operates generally are highly competitive. For example, in its Pharmaceutical Distribution business, the Company competes with national wholesale distributors McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and a number of smaller regional wholesale distributors, direct selling manufacturers, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors and third-party logistics companies. Competitive pressures across business segments have contributed to a decline in the Company’s gross profit margins on revenue from approximately 4% in fiscal 2002 to 3% in fiscal 2005. This trend may continue and the Company’s business could be adversely affected as a result. The Company’s Pharmaceutical Distribution business is transitioning its business model, which subjects the Company to risks and uncertainties. As discussed more fully under “Customers and Suppliers” within “Item 1: Business,” the Company’s Pharmaceutical Distribution business, which is the Company’s largest business, is in a business model transition with respect to how it is compensated for the logistical, capital and administrative services it provides to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee-for-service terms that adequately compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. As part of the transition to fee-for-service terms, certain of the new distribution service agreements entered into with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements with certain other branded manufacturers still continue to be solely inflation-based. If branded pharmaceutical price inflation is lower than the Company has anticipated, its operating results could be adversely affected with respect to its current exposure to contingent fee-based compensation in its Pharmaceutical Distribution business. In addition, certain key distribution service agreements will be re-negotiated in the latter half of fiscal 2006 and into fiscal 2007 when their initial terms expire. If the terms of the re-negotiated agreements are unfavorable to the Company, it could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The ongoing SEC investigation and U.S. Attorney inquiry could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. As discussed below under “Item 3: Legal Proceedings” and Note 1 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” the Company is the subject of a formal SEC investigation and had learned that the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York had also commenced an inquiry with respect to the Company. In April 2004, the Company’s Audit Committee commenced its own internal review, assisted by independent counsel. While the Company is continuing in its efforts to respond to these inquiries and provide all information required, the Company cannot predict the outcome of the SEC investigation or the U.S. Attorney inquiry. There can be no assurance that the scope of the SEC investigation or the U.S. Attorney inquiry will not expand or that other regulatory agencies will not become involved. The outcome of, and costs associated with, the SEC investigation and the U.S. Attorney inquiry could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results, and the investigations could divert the efforts and attention of its management team from the Company’s ordinary business operations. The outcome of the SEC investigation, the U.S. Attorney inquiry and any related legal and administrative proceedings could include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings involving the Company and/or current or former Company employees, officers and/or directors, as well as the imposition of fines and other penalties, remedies and sanctions. Additional restatements may be required, the historical consolidated financial statements may change or require amendment or additional disciplinary actions may be required; the Audit Committee may identify new issues, or make additional findings if it receives additional information, that may have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and the scope of the restatements described in Forms 10-K and 10-Q. During September and October 2004, the Audit Committee reached certain conclusions with respect to findings to date from its internal review, which were discussed in Notes 1 and 2 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in the 2004 Form 10-K. In connection with these conclusions, the Audit Committee previously determined that the consolidated financial statements of the Company with respect to fiscal 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, as well as the first three quarters of fiscal 2004, should be restated to reflect the conclusions from its internal review to date. In January 2005, the Audit Committee took disciplinary actions with respect to the Company’s employees who it determined bore responsibility for these matters, other than with respect to the accounting treatment of certain recoveries from vitamin manufacturers for which there is a separate Board committee internal review. There can be no assurance that additional restatements will not be required, that the historical consolidated financial statements included in the 2004 Form 10-K, the Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods during fiscal 2005, or this Form 10-K will not change or require amendment, or that additional disciplinary actions will not be required in such circumstances. In addition, as the SEC investigation, the U.S. Attorney inquiry and 14 Table of Contents the Audit Committee internal review continue, the Audit Committee may identify new issues, or make additional findings if it receives additional information, that may have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and the scope of the restatements described in the 2004 Form 10-K, the Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods, and this Form 10-K. The Company’s internal controls may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable financial information. As reported under Item 9a of this Form 10-K, the Company’s management completed its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2005 and based on that assessment, concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2005. The Company’s auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment that expresses unqualified opinions on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Still, however, the Company’s growth continues to place stress on its internal controls, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s control procedures will continue to be adequate. The effectiveness of the Company’s controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks, including, among other things, faulty human judgment, simple errors, omissions and mistakes, collusion of two or more people or inappropriate management override of procedures. If the Company fails to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, it could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information. Changes in the United States health care environment may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs. These efforts include, but are not limited to, potential national health care reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare, consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups, including the efforts in several states to establish pharmaceutical purchasing programs on behalf of their residents. This industry is expected to continue to undergo significant changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. Other factors related to the health care industry that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results include, but are not limited to: • changes in governmental support of, and reimbursement for, health care services, including any legislation affecting the payment of fees for distribution services; • changes in the method by which health care services are delivered; • changes in the prices for health care services; • other legislation or regulations governing health care services or mandated benefits; and • changes in pharmaceutical and medical-surgical manufacturers’ pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or procedures. The Company’s Medical Products and Services Distribution business purchases medical/surgical products from vendors other than the original manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers have adopted policies limiting the ability of such business to purchase products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Medical Products and Services Distribution business to purchase products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Healthcare and public policy trends indicate that the number of generic drugs will increase over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain drug patents. To the extent that market conditions significantly alter the level of availability or pricing of generic drugs different from what the Company was anticipating, this could adversely affect the Company’s net earnings. There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government including state pharmacy boards and comparable agencies to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system. Certain states, such as Florida and California, have already adopted laws and regulations that are intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system while other government agencies are currently evaluating their recommendations. These laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the Company’s Pharmaceutical Distribution business, and may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. There have been increasing efforts by various parties to introduce and pass legislation that would directly permit the importation of pharmaceutical products into the United States. If such efforts are successful, the price the Company receives for pharmaceutical products and related services could be adversely affected, thereby negatively impacting the Company’s operating results. The Company is subject to extensive and frequently changing local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. The federal government continues to increase its scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Furthermore, the Company’s relationships with pharmaceutical 15 Table of Contents manufacturers and healthcare providers subject its business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse. Many of the regulations applicable to the Company, including those relating to marketing incentives offered by pharmaceutical or medical-surgical suppliers, are vague and could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Act”), the U.S. government recently proposed changes in certain pharmaceutical reimbursement rates. The Company may be adversely affected by changes or changes that may be proposed in the future under the Act. The Company is in the process of developing plans to mitigate any exposures from these changes in reimbursement rates and the way its customers conduct their business under the Act. However, if the Company fails to successfully implement such plans, its business and the results of operations may be adversely affected. The outcomes of lawsuits brought against the Company may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. As discussed below under “Item 3: Legal Proceedings,” the Company is subject to numerous lawsuits, including several class action lawsuits against the Company and certain of its former and present officers and directors. Any settlement of or judgment in one or more of these matters could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. There can be no assurance that all or any portion of the liability arising from these pending lawsuits will be covered by insurance policies that the Company currently maintains. The Company could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more significant customers or group of customers, or by a change in customer mix. The Company’s largest customers, CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 21% and 10%, respectively, of the Company’s revenue (by dollar volume) for fiscal 2005. The aggregate of the Company’s five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 37% of the Company’s revenue (by dollar volume) for fiscal 2005. The Company’s business and operating results could be adversely affected if the business of these customers was lost. In addition, certain of the Company’s businesses have entered into agreements with GPOs. Approximately 15% of the Company’s revenue for fiscal 2005 was derived from GPO members through the contractual arrangements established with Novation and Premier. Generally, compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is voluntary. Notwithstanding this fact, the loss of such an agreement could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. See the “Customers and Suppliers” discussion within “Item 1: Business” and Note 13 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information regarding the Company’s significant customers. Changes in the Company’s customer mix could also significantly impact its business, financial condition or operating results. Due to the diverse range of health care supply management and health care information technology products and services that the Company offers, such changes may adversely affect certain of the Company’s businesses, while not affecting some of its competitors who offer a narrower range of products and services. Difficulties, delays or increased costs in implementing the global restructuring program associated with the Company’s One Cardinal Health initiative may adversely affect the anticipated benefit of the restructuring on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. As discussed more fully in the “Overview” section within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program in connection with its One Cardinal Health initiative. The Company expects the program to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2008 and expects it to improve operating earnings and position the Company for future growth. If the restructuring program suffers unforeseen difficulties, is delayed in its completion or results in unforeseen additional costs, the Company may not achieve the operational and financial objectives it has set for the program, and the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results may not fully benefit from the restructuring to the extent that the Company had initially anticipated. In addition, certain projects under the One Cardinal Health restructuring involve replacement of legacy systems, consolidation and rationalization of employees and, in some cases, outsourcing. During such transitions, it is possible the Company may suffer, at least on a temporary basis, problems associated with internal control over financial reporting or business interruptions which could arise as a result of such restructuring. Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. The health care industry is highly regulated. The Company is subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the NRC, DHHS, the European Union member states and other comparable agencies. Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the NRC, DHHS and various state boards of pharmacy, state 16 Table of Contents health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. Although the Company believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of the Company’s operations with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or renew existing permits and licenses or obtain without significant delay future permits and licenses needed for the operation of the Company’s businesses. The Clinical Technologies and Services segment’s automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems are not currently required to be registered or submitted for pre-market notifications to the FDA. There can be no assurance, however, that FDA policy in this regard will not change. Any noncompliance by the Company with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if changes were to occur to the laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s businesses, such changes could adversely affect many of the Company’s regulated operations, which include: • distributing prescription pharmaceuticals (including certain controlled substances); • operating pharmacy businesses (including nuclear pharmacies); • manufacturing medical/surgical products (including infusion therapy systems and intravenous administration set products and devices); • manufacturing pharmaceuticals using proprietary drug delivery systems; • development and manufacturing of oral and sterile pharmaceutical products; • packaging pharmaceuticals; and • the sales and marketing of pharmaceuticals. Also, the health care regulatory environment may change in a manner that could restrict the Company’s existing operations, limit the expansion of the Company’s businesses, apply regulations to previously unregulated businesses or otherwise affect the Company adversely. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected by a delay in, or failure to receive, regulatory approval. The Company’s pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturing businesses are heavily regulated and strict compliance with federal and foreign laws, rules, regulations and practices must be followed. By nature, the manufacturing of such products is a highly controlled process in which great strides are taken to avoid contamination in the products. Due to the regulatory issues and challenges, there is a risk of delay in approval of these products, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Circumstances associated with the Company’s acquisition strategy and internal growth may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. An important element of the Company’s growth strategy has been the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses which expand or complement the Company’s existing businesses. Over the past decade, the Company has expanded beyond its core pharmaceutical distribution business into areas such as medical-surgical product manufacturing and distribution, development and manufacturing of drug delivery systems, development and manufacturing of automation and information products, compounding and distribution of nuclear pharmaceutical products, and developing, manufacturing and distributing intravenous pumps and administration sets. Integrating businesses, however, involves a number of special risks, including the following: • the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; • unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems; • problems assimilating and retaining the Company’s employees or the employees of the acquired company; • accounting issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company, including unforeseen issues related to internal control over financial reporting at the acquired company; • regulatory or compliance issues that could exist at an acquired company; • challenges in retaining the Company’s customers or the customers of the acquired company following the acquisition; and • potential adverse short-term effects on operating results through increased costs or otherwise. In addition, the Company may incur debt to finance future acquisitions and/or may issue securities in connection with future acquisitions which may dilute the holdings of its current and future shareholders. To the extent the Company continues to pursue acquisitions, its ability to complete such transactions may be adversely affected by the government investigations described above under the risk factor entitled “The ongoing SEC investigation and U.S. Attorney inquiry could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results.” In addition to the risks associated with acquisition-related growth, the Company’s business has grown in size and complexity 17 Table of Contents over the past few years as a result of internal growth. This growth and increase in complexity have placed significant demands on management, systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. To meet such demands, the Company intends to continue to invest in new technology, make other capital expenditures and, where appropriate, hire and/or train employees with expertise to handle these particular demands. If the Company is unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner or if the Company fails to efficiently manage operations in a way that accommodates continued internal growth, its business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Downgrades of the Company’s credit ratings could adversely affect the Company. The Company’s senior debt credit ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch are BBB, Baa3 and BBB+, respectively, the commercial paper ratings are A-3, P-3 and F-2, respectively, and the ratings outlooks are “negative,” “stable” and “negative,” respectively. Although a ratings downgrade by any of the rating agencies will not trigger an acceleration of any of the Company’s indebtedness, these events may adversely affect its ability to access capital and would result in an increase in the interest rates payable under the Company’s credit facilities and future indebtedness. See also “Liquidity and Capital Resources” within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Company could be adversely affected if transitions in senior management are not successful. The Company’s operations depend in a large extent on the efforts of its senior management. Several new members of senior management, including the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer – Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and Treasurer have recently joined the Company. The Company seeks to develop and retain an effective management team through the proper positioning of existing key employees and the addition of new management personnel where necessary. The Company’s operations could be adversely affected if transitions in senior management are not successful or if the Company is unable to sustain an effective management team. Increased costs for raw materials or raw material shortages may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. As discussed more fully under “Customers and Suppliers” within “Item 1: Business,” the Company’s manufacturing businesses within the Medical Products and Services and Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments use a broad range of raw materials in the products that they produce. In certain circumstances, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by increases in raw materials costs because the Company may not be able to fully recover the increased costs from the customer or offset the increased cost through productivity improvements. In addition, in the case where there are a limited number of suppliers for a particular raw material or where the Company is constrained to use a particular supplier due to customer requirements, regulatory filings or product approvals, the Company may experience shortages in supply. This, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Increased fuel costs may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. As discussed under “Customers and Suppliers” within “Item 1: Business,” the Company’s Pharmaceutical Distribution business utilizes contract carriers to distribute its products. Contracts with these carriers generally contain a fuel surcharge capped at a certain percentage. If fuel costs rise significantly, the Pharmaceutical Distribution business may need to increase the specified fuel surcharge, which is limited to specified annual percentage increases, with certain contract carriers. In the event that the Pharmaceutical Distribution business cannot reach agreement on these changes, it may need to replace the contract carriers at prevailing market rates. The Company’s Medical Products and Services Distribution and Nuclear Pharmacy Services businesses own their distribution fleets, which distribute a majority of their products to customers. These businesses are directly impacted by market changes in the price of fuel. As a result of the Company’s exposure to fuel costs, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by increased fuel costs, as the Company may not be able to fully recover the increased costs from its customers. Proprietary technology protections may not be adequate and Company products may infringe on the rights of third parties. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a number of its products, services and intangible assets. There can be no assurance that these protections will provide meaningful protection against competitive products or services or otherwise be commercially valuable or that the Company will be successful in obtaining additional intellectual property or enforcing its intellectual property rights against unauthorized users. There can be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company’s technology. From time to time, third parties have asserted infringement claims against the Company and there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in the future. (See the discussion of the ICU Medical, Inc. litigation against Alaris in the “Overview” section within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”) While the Company believes that the products it currently manufactures using its proprietary technology do not infringe upon proprietary rights of other parties or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, the Company may be subject to litigation or find it necessary to initiate litigation to protect its trade secrets, to enforce its patent, copyright and trademark rights and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and could generate significant expenses, damage payments or restrictions or prohibitions on the Company’s use of its technology, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, if the Company is found to be infringing on proprietary rights of others, the Company may be required to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease making, using and/or selling the infringing products. Risks generally associated with the Company’s sophisticated information systems may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company relies on sophisticated information systems in its business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to: • facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; • manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and • process payments to suppliers. The Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events or fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. The Company could become subject to liability claims that are not adequately covered by insurance, and may have to pay damages and other expenses which may have an adverse affect on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s businesses expose it to risks that are inherent in: • the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and nuclear pharmaceuticals; • the provision of ancillary services (such as pharmacy management and pharmacy staffing services); • the development and manufacture of drug delivery systems and of pharmaceutical products for the Company or its customers; • the development, presentation and distribution of medical education and marketing programs and materials; and • the manufacture and distribution of medical/surgical products, automated drug dispensing units and infusion therapy systems and intravenous administration set products and devices. Insurance policies covering pharmaceutical product liability generally being offered by insurance carriers are becoming more restrictive in terms of self-insured retentions, available policy limits, coverage exclusions and other terms. There can be no assurance that a successful product or professional liability claim would be adequately covered by the Company’s applicable insurance policies or by any applicable contractual indemnity and, as such, this could adversely effect the Company’s operating results. The loss of third-party licenses used by businesses within the Company’s Clinical Technologies and Services segment may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company licenses the rights to use certain technologies from third-party vendors to incorporate in or complement products and services offered through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment. These licenses are generally nonexclusive, must be renewed periodically by mutual consent and may be terminated if the Company breaches the terms of the license. As a result, the Company may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments until it obtains equivalent technology, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with the Company. In addition, if the Company’s vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future, the Company may not be able to modify or adapt certain of its own products. Tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect the Company’s net earnings. The Company is a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, the Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect the Company’s tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although the Company believes that its historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that the Company’s tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would be successful in any such challenge. 19 Table of Contents 