Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Concentration of Risk.The Company relies on mass merchandisers and major food and drug chains for the sales of its products. The loss of any one of those accounts or substantial reduction of sales revenues realized from their business could have a material negative impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. All of the Company’s products have independent competition and must be able to compete in order to maintain the Company's position on the retail merchandisers’ shelves. (See Business—General, Item 1 (c) Marketing.)We are Dependent on Independent Contract Manufacturers.The Company does not manufacture any of its products. All of the products are manufactured for the Company by independent contract manufacturers. There can be no assurance that the failure of a supplier to deliver the products ordered by the Company, when requested, will not cause burdensome delays in the Company’s shipments to its customers. The Company does constantly seek alternative suppliers should a major supplier fail to deliver as contracted. A failure of the Company to ship as ordered by its customers could cause penalties and/or cancellations of our customers’ orders. In addition, a transition to a new supplier could result in delays that could impact timely distribution of our products. Either of these events could have a material adverse impact on our relationships with our customers and our results of operations, financial condition and business.There is No Assurance That The Business Will Be Able to Operate Profitably.In fiscal 2013, net sales were $38,789,593. Net loss was $6,193,248. Most significantly during fiscal 2013, the Company had lower sales of its Gel Perfect nail products, combined with higher returns and higher inventory obsolescence of Gel Perfect related products. There is no assurance that the Company’s products will be successful. During 2013 consumer confidence continued to be low which had a general impact on the industry and retail sales.We may experience periods of declines in sales, especially during periods of economic downturn, and any material reduction in our sales could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and business. The Company is Dependent on Outsourced Core Function VendorsIn the first quarter of fiscal 2014, management approved and began implementing the Company's outsourcing agreements with the Emerson Group, which includes sales, customer service, accounts receivable collections functions, and its outsourcing agreement with OHL, which includes warehousing and shipping functions. While there are other vendors that provide these services, which could be sought as alternative vendors, any disruption in our sales, shipments, collections or any other core outsourced function, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial results and financial condition, results of operations and business.The Cosmetic, Health and Beauty Aid Industry is Highly Competitive.The market for cosmetics and perfumes, and health-and-beauty aids products in general, including patent medicines, is characterized by vigorous competition among producers, many of whom have substantially greater financial, technological and marketing resources than the Company. Major competitors such as Revlon, L’Oreal, Colgate-Palmolive, Coty, Unilever, and Procter & Gamble have the broadest-based public recognition of their products and are significantly larger than the Company. Moreover, a substantial number of other health-and-beauty aids manufacturers and distributors may also have greater resources than the Company and may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively on research and development, advertising and marketing, and to respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions. Our 5TABLE OF CONTENTSinability to successfully compete with our competitors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operation and business.CLASS A Shareholders Retain Control of Board of Directors.Class A Shareholders, David Edell, a director of the Company, and Ira W. Berman, director emeritus, have the right to elect four members to the Board of Directors. As a result, they are able to exert significant influence over our business. The holders of Common Stock have the right to elect three members to the Board of Directors.Future Success Depends on Continued Success of the Company’s Current Products and New Product Development.The Company is not financially as strong as the major companies against whom it competes. The ability to successfully introduce new niche products and increase the growth and profitability of its current and new niche brand products will affect the business and prospects of the future of the Company and this ability is dependent upon the creativity and marketing skills of management.All of the Company’s product must be in compliance with all FDA and state regulations and all products which are being manufactured for the Company by outside suppliers must conform to the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices requirements. It is the Company’s responsibility to ascertain that the suppliers do conform. Damage could be caused to our reputation and our relationships with our customers and consumers if our products do not comply with such legal requirements, or with consumer expectations, which could result in diminished sales or liability claims, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and business.The Company Relies On A Few Large Customers For A Significant Portion Of Its Sales.In fiscal 2013, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. represented 43.2% of the Company’s net sales. The Company’s five largest customers accounted for 68.4% of the Company’s net sales. The Company has no agreements with any of its customers to stock its products. The Company’s business would suffer materially if it lost Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. as a customer. The loss of any of the Company’s five top customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results.The Company’s Dietary Supplement Business Could Be Adversely Affected By Unfavorable Scientific Studies Or Negative Press.The Company’s dietary supplement, Mega -T (Green Tea), to some extent is dependent on consumers’ perceptions, and the benefit and integrity of the dietary supplement business. Any safety alert on any dietary supplement for weight loss may negatively affect the consumers’ perceptions of the product category.The Price of the Company’s Stock May Be Volatile.The Company’s stock could fluctuate substantially. There is a limited float of shares tradable. There are factors beyond the Company’s control which may cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate significantly, including but not limited to the volatility of small cap stocks in general, general stock market conditions, and quarter to quarter variations. In addition, variations in the Company’s operating revenues and profits and the timing of advertising commitments also may have an effect on the market price of the Company’s stock.Climate Change Effects.The Company continues to monitor climate changes for any potential impact on its business. At this time, the Company does not anticipate that any climate change or climate change regulations will have a material impact on its operations or business.The Company may Experience Interruptions to Its Business Operations Due to Events Beyond Its ControlA catastrophic event beyond the Company’s control, such as a natural disaster, health pandemic or act of terrorism, that results in the destruction or disruption of any of the Company’s critical business systems or operations could harm its ability to conduct normal business operations and its operating results. For example, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, Superstorm Sandy caused interruptions to the Company’s operations for one week, and resulted in damages to inventory and substantial water damage to its corporate headquarters and warehouse. Although the Company was able to resume shipments to customers within a week and had flood insurance, it incurred a total loss of $128,554 as a result of Superstorm Sandy during 6TABLE OF CONTENTSfiscal 2012 and the interruption to operations impacted sales. (See “Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information concerning the impact of Superstorm Sandy.)We Depend on Key Personnel.Our employees are key to the growth and success of our business. This depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including our executive officers and key management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our operating results could be adversely affected.The Future Growth of the Company Depends on an Effective Marketing Program.An effective marketing program includes media advertising, co-operative advertising with our retail partners and product promotions that increase product awareness and help generate increased sales for our customers. Our inability to develop an effective advertising campaign, marketing or promotional programs, that would succeed in a difficult economic environment and highly competitive marketplace, could have a material adverse effect on our business.We Sell to International Accounts.International sales account for approximately 5.0% of our total net sales. Our international sales expose the Company to additional risks of different political or regulatory conditions, and the dependence on other economies. A terrorist attack, the threat of a terrorist attack or foreign military operations or other catastrophic event beyond the Company's control could prevent us from shipping to our international accounts. A loss of our international sales would have a material adverse effect on our business. We Purchase Some Raw Materials or Components from International Suppliers.Some of the components used in our products are sourced from international suppliers. This exposes the Company to an additional risk of increased costs if the foreign currency exchange rates change unfavorably. A terrorist attack, the threat of a terrorist attack or foreign military operations or other catastrophic event beyond the Company's control could prevent the international suppliers from delivering their goods to the Company. The interruption of the supply could have a material adverse effect on our business.We Have Entered into Employment and Change of Control Agreements that would Require Us to Make Substantial Payments in connection with a Change of Control of the Company.The Company has entered into a Change of Control Agreement with each of Ira Berman and David Edell (the “Consultants”), who provide consulting services to the Company, and Employment Agreements with each of Drew Edell and Stephen Heit and another Company executive (the “Executives”). The Change of Control Agreements provide for an acceleration of payments that would be due through 2016 under each of the Consultant’s employment agreements with the Company, which were entered into in 1993. Each of the Employment Agreements may, in the event of a change of control of the Company, result in a lump sum payment equal to three times the Executive’s base salary plus other benefits. As a result, if a change of control occurred, the Company could be required to make a substantial payment to the Consultants and Executives, which would impact the Company’s cash reserves and earnings.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone