Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although this section attempts to highlight key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: If we do not successfully renew or renegotiate our agreements with our clients, our business will suffer. A significant amount of our revenues is derived from long-term contracts with large clients, including a major customer. Consolidation among financial institutions has resulted in an increasingly concentrated client base. The financial position of these clients and their willingness to pay for our products and services are affected by general market positions, competitive pressures, and operating margins within their industries. Renewal or renegotiation time presents our clients with the opportunity to consider other providers. The loss or renegotiation of our contracts with existing clients or a significant decline in the number of transactions we process for them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. Consolidation among financial institutions, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS clients or the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS clients could materially impact our financial position and results of operation. Consolidation among financial institutions, particularly in the area of credit card operations, continues to be a major risk. Specifically, we face risk that our clients may merge with entities that are not our clients or our clients may sell portfolios to entities that are not our clients, thereby impacting our existing agreements and projected revenues with these clients. During 2005, for example, Bank of America acquired MBNA Corporation, making it one of the largest card issuers in the U.S. In December 2005, we received official notification from Bank of America of its intent to shift the processing of its consumer card portfolio in house in October 2006 in connection with the acquisition of MBNA. This kind of consolidation and the loss of any significant client by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 4 Table of Contents Accounts on file may be lower than anticipated and internal growth rates for our existing clients may be lower than anticipated. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately 438 million accounts on file. By the end of 2006, we anticipate that there will be approximately 395 million to 405 million accounts on file. There is no guarantee, however, that accounts on file will be as we anticipate and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, a significant amount of our revenues is derived from certain large clients and internal growth rates for these existing clients may be lower than anticipated, thereby negatively impacting our business. We may incur expenses associated with the signing of a significant client to our processing system and in connection with our efforts to grow internationally or incur other costs that may hurt our financial results. We incur significant up-front expenses prior to converting a significant client to our processing system. In the event we enter into a processing contract with a significant client, these expenses will directly affect our earnings results. In addition, we provide services to our clients worldwide and plan to continue to expand our service offerings internationally in the future. We are likely to incur costs in growing our business internationally, and there is no guarantee that such international expansion will be successful. We may also incur other expenses and costs, such as operating and marketing expenses. If we are unable to successfully manage these expenses as our business develops, changes and expands, our financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. There may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general. If consumers do not continue to use credit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use credit cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our clients to do business, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not convert and deconvert clients’ portfolios as scheduled. We anticipate conversion of Capital One’s North American portfolio of consumer and small business credit card accounts and deconversion of Citibank’s Sears, Roebuck and Co. card portfolio and Bank of America’s consumer card portfolio during 2006. There is no guarantee, however, that these conversions and deconversions will occur as anticipated and this may have a 5 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have pursued various strategic acquisitions and these acquisitions may be more difficult to integrate than anticipated. We regularly explore opportunities for strategic acquisitions and expect to grow, in part, through such acquisitions. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits of the acquisition. The integration could result in loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. These factors could contribute to us not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frames, if at all. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or other authoritative bodies, could materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. From time to time, the regulatory agencies, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other authoritative bodies change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. If we do not anticipate and respond to rapid technological change or changes in industry standards, particularly with respect to e-commerce, our services could become obsolete and we could lose our clients. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to timely, successfully and cost-effectively improve and implement processing systems to provide new products, increased functionality and increased efficiencies. The widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make 6 Table of Contents substantial expenditures to modify or adopt our existing products and services, and we may not be successful in improving and implementing our processing systems or in achieving market acceptance of these new technologies. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, particularly with respect to e-commerce, our existing product and service offerings, proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop these new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our industry is changing rapidly. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our processing systems, products, services and technologies. Changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting our business may require significant product redevelopment efforts or may reduce the market for or value of our products. There may be changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards that affect our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase or decrease the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted or whether any credit card association rule or other industry standard will change, and if enacted or changed, the effect that it would have on our financial position or results of operations. These changes may require us to incur significant expenses to redevelop our products, but there is no guarantee that we would be successful or that there would be a market for or value of our products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, policies or standards, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. In the rapidly developing legal framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our products and technology infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our products or technology. Any of these third parties 7 Table of Contents could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. Any claim from third parties may result in limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Security and privacy breaches in our electronic transactions may damage customer relations and inhibit our growth. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We electronically store personal information about consumers who are customers of our clients. If we are unable to protect, or our clients perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic transactions, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: • cause our clients to lose confidence in our services; • harm our reputation; • expose us to liability; and • increase our expenses from potential remediation costs. While we believe we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market positions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential clients. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of highly skilled technical, management and sales and marketing personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing transaction processing industry and markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our key personnel would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain additional qualified management and technical personnel as we grow. Competition for the best people, particularly those individuals with technology experience, is intense. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. 8 Table of Contents Bank of America may not deconvert as anticipated, amortization of related contract acquisition costs may not be accelerated as anticipated and the termination fee may not be in the amount anticipated. Bank of America has notified us of its intent to shift the processing of its consumer card portfolio in house in October 2006. Our processing agreement with Bank of America provides that Bank of America may terminate its agreement with us for consumer credit card services upon the payment of a termination fee, which is determined based upon several factors. Based upon the expected October 2006 deconversion date, this fee is estimated to be approximately $69 million. As a result of the anticipated deconversion in October 2006, we will accelerate the amortization of approximately $7 million in contract acquisition costs. There is no guarantee, however, that the deconversion will occur as anticipated in October 2006 and that we will be able to amortize the anticipated related contract acquisition costs or receive the termination fee in the amount anticipated from Bank of America. Various domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts could affect our business and financial position. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response to acts or threats of terrorism and/or military conflicts, could negatively affect business and economic positions in the U.S. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including conflict in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 