ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. We could incur significant costs related to legal and environmental matters. We formerly manufactured lead pigments for use in paint. We and others have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings seeking damages for personal injury, property damage and governmental expenditures allegedly caused by the use of lead-based paints. These lawsuits seek recovery under a variety of theories, including public and private nuisance, negligent product design, negligent failure to warn, strict liability, breach of warranty, conspiracy/concert of action, aiding and abetting, enterprise liability, market share or risk contribution liability, intentional tort, fraud and misrepresentation, violations of state consumer protection statutes, supplier negligence and similar claims. The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek to impose on the defendants responsibility for lead paint abatement and health concerns associated with the use of lead-based paints, including damages for personal injury, contribution and/or indemnification for medical expenses, medical monitoring expenses and costs for educational programs. As with all legal proceedings, the outcome is uncertain. Any liability we might incur in the future could be material. See also Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings - Lead pigment litigation.” Certain properties and facilities used in our former operations are the subject of litigation, administrative proceedings or investigations arising under various environmental laws. These proceedings seek cleanup costs, personal injury or property damages and/or damages for injury to natural resources. Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts. Environmental obligations are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, and we may incur costs for environmental remediation in the future in excess of amounts currently estimated. Any liability we might incur in the future could be material. See also Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings - Environmental matters and litigation.” Our assets consist primarily of investments in our operating subsidiaries and affiliates, and we are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries and affiliates. A majority of our cash flows are generated by our operating subsidiaries, and our ability to service liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock depends to a large extent upon the cash dividends or other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries and affiliates. Our subsidiaries and affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay such cash dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, the payment of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on or taxation of dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions, foreign currency exchange regulations in jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, any other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements to which our subsidiaries may be a party, including debt instruments. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, could adversely impact the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If our subsidiaries were to become unable to make sufficient cash dividends or other distributions to us, our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, a significant portion of our assets consist of ownership interests in our subsidiaries and affiliates. If we were required to liquidate any of such securities in order to generate funds to satisfy our liabilities, we may be required to sell such securities at a time or times at which we would not be able to realize what we believe to be the actual value of such assets. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. A significant portion of our net income is attributable to sales of TiO2 by Kronos. Approximately 90% of Kronos’ revenues are attributable to sales of TiO2. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. This may result in reduced earnings. Historically, the markets for many of Kronos’ products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand. Relative changes in the selling prices for Kronos’ products are one of the main factors that affect the level of our profitability. In periods of increasing demand, Kronos’ selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand Kronos’ selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease. Future growth in demand for TiO2 may not be sufficient to alleviate any future conditions of excess industry capacity, and such conditions may not be sustained or may be further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated capacity additions or other events. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is also subject to seasonal fluctuations. TiO2 sales are generally higher in the first half of the year. This is due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet demand during the spring and summer painting season. We sell several of our products in mature and highly competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The global markets in which Kronos and CompX operate their businesses are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs, especially CompX’s competitors in Asia. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors. In addition, in some of our businesses new competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may decrease our liquidity. The number of sources for, and availability of, certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located. For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in Kronos’ TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. If our worldwide vendors were not able to meet their contractual obligations and we were unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we might incur higher costs for raw materials or we might be required to reduce production levels. We may not always be able to increase our selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. Our development of new component products as well as innovative features for our current component products is critical to sustaining and growing our Component Product Segment’s sales. Historically, our ability to provide value-added custom engineered component products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of our success. The introduction of new products and features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products with potential customers. The ability to implement such coordination may be affected by factors beyond our control. While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new products that target customer-specific opportunities, there can be no assurance that any new products we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have achieved with our existing products. Introduction of new products typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel. As we attempt to introduce new products in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. If our patents are declared invalid or our trade secrets become known to competitors, our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Protection of our proprietary processes and other technology is important to our competitive position. Consequently, we rely on judicial enforcement for protection of our patents, and our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, then the use of any such intellectual property by our competitors could decrease our cash flows. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could have similar effects. We also rely on certain unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although it is our practice to enter into confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property, because these confidentiality agreements may be breached, such agreements may not provide sufficient protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of such trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. Loss of key personnel or our ability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our businesses and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the highly competitive markets in which we operate will continue to depend to a significant extent on the leadership teams of our businesses and other key management personnel. We do not have binding employment agreements with any of these managers. This increases the risks that we may not be able to retain our current management personnel and we may not be able to recruit qualified individuals to join our management team, including recruiting qualified individuals to replace any of our current personnel that may leave in the future. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. As of December 31, 2006, Kronos had total debt of approximately $536 million, substantially all of which relates to Senior Secured Notes of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Kronos International, Inc. Kronos’ level of debt could have important consequences to its stockholders (including us) and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors. In addition to Kronos’ indebtedness, Kronos is party to various lease and other agreements pursuant to which it is committed to pay approximately $292 million. Kronos’ ability to make payments on and refinance its debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, depends on Kronos’ future ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, Kronos’ ability to borrow funds under its subsidiaries’ credit facilities in the future will in some instances depend in part on these subsidiaries’ ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement. Kronos’ business may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable Kronos to pay its debts when they become due and to fund its other liquidity needs. As a result, Kronos may need to refinance all or a portion of its debt before maturity. Kronos may not be able to refinance any of its debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance Kronos’ debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 