Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although this section attempts to highlight key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: Consolidation among financial institutions and retail clients, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS clients or the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS clients, or the nationalization or seizure by banking regulators of financial institutions which are TSYS clients, could materially impact our financial position and results of operation. Consolidation among financial institutions, particularly in the area of credit card operations, and consolidation in the retail industry, continues to be a major risk. Specifically, we face the risk that our clients may merge with entities that are not our clients, our clients may sell portfolios to entities that are not our clients and, based on current economic conditions, our financial institution clients may be seized by banking regulators or nationalized, thereby negatively impacting our existing agreements and projected revenues with these clients. In addition, consolidation among financial institutions has led to an increasingly concentrated client base at TSYS which results in a changing client mix toward larger clients. Continued consolidations among financial institutions could increase the bargaining power of our current and future clients and further increase our client concentration. Consolidation among financial institutions and retail clients, the nationalization of financial institutions or the seizure by banking regulators of financial institutions and the resulting loss of any significant client by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we do not successfully renew or renegotiate our agreements with our clients, our business will suffer. A significant amount of our revenues is derived from long-term contracts with large clients. Consolidation among financial institutions has resulted in an increasingly concentrated client base. The financial position of these clients and their willingness to pay for our products and services are affected by general market positions, competitive pressures and operating margins within their industries. Renewal or renegotiation time presents our clients with the opportunity to consider other providers, transition all or a portion of the services we provide in-house or seek lower rates for our services. The loss of our contracts with existing clients or renegotiation of contracts at reduced rates or reduced service levels could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. Economic conditions could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from the number of consumer credit transactions that we process which may be affected by, among other things, overall economic conditions. The payment processing industry depends heavily upon the overall level of 5 Table of Contents consumer, business and government spending to support the necessary volume of payment transactions. Any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the United States or Europe, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number of transactions involving credit and debit cards. Future reductions in consumer spending through credit card usage would likely have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. Security and privacy breaches of our systems and system failures may damage client relations, our reputation and expose us to financial liability. The uninterrupted operation of our processing systems and the confidentiality of the client information that resides on our systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as business continuity plans designed to ensure our systems will not be inoperable. However, there is still a risk that a system outage or data loss may occur which would not only damage our reputation but as a result of contractual commitments could also require the payment of penalties to our clients if our systems do not meet certain operating standards. We also have what we believe to be sufficient security around our systems to prevent unauthorized access. An information breach in the system and loss of confidential information could have a longer and more significant impact on our business than a hardware failure. We electronically store personal information, such as credit card numbers and related information, about consumers who are customers of our clients. If we are unable to protect, or our clients perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic transactions, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach or a system failure may: • cause our clients to lose confidence in our services; • harm our reputation; • expose us to financial liability, both as a result of litigation and contractually; • cause us to modify our protective measures which would increase our expenses; and • increase our expenses from potential remediation costs. Our financial exposure from the items referenced above may either not be insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. In addition, our ability to attract and retain clients and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. While we believe we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to breach our systems in order to gain access to confidential client information or our intellectual property or assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential clients. 6 Table of Contents The ability to adapt technology to changing industry and customer needs or trends may affect our competitiveness or demand for our products, which may adversely affect our financial results. The payment processing market in which we compete is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, developing industry standards and changing customer needs and preferences. Also, our customers continue to adopt new technology for business and personal uses. We must anticipate and respond to these industry and customer changes in order to remain competitive. If we are unable to effectively respond to these changes, the competitiveness of and demand for our services will be materially impaired and may result in our services being removed from the payments value chain. Our inability to respond to new competitors and technological advancements could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. The signing of new significant clients is often costly and time consuming and if we are unable to successfully close these sales our financial results may be adversely affected. We incur significant up-front expenses and expend substantial time, effort and other resources prior to signing significant clients. Potential clients generally conduct detailed evaluations of available processing systems and, after we have expended significant resources educating the potential client on our systems, ultimately may determine not to enter into a contract with us. If we are unsuccessful in signing new clients after expending significant expense, time and resources, it could have an adverse effect on our financial results and divert management’s attention from other potential and existing clients. In addition, we incur significant up-front expenses prior to converting a significant client to our processing systems. In the event we enter into a processing contract with a significant client, these expenses will directly affect our earnings results. There may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general. If consumers do not continue to use credit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered by credit card companies to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, the rate of credit card use among consumers and businesses must continue to grow. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation that makes it more difficult for our clients to do business, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We may not convert and deconvert client’s portfolios as scheduled. The timing of the conversion of card portfolios of new clients to our processing systems and the deconversion of existing clients to other systems impacts our revenues and expenses. There is no guarantee that conversions and deconversions will occur as scheduled and this may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Acquisitions and integrating such acquisitions create certain risks and may affect our financial results. We have acquired businesses both in the United States and internationally and will continue to explore opportunities for strategic acquisitions in the future. On February 19, 2013, we announced our proposed acquisition of NetSpend Holdings, Inc. (“NetSpend”). The acquisition and integration of businesses such as NetSpend involve a number of risks. The core risks are in the areas of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology and other assets so as to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition). Other risks include the inaccurate assessment of disclosed liabilities, inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, including internal control and regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and personnel turnover. Furthermore, the NetSpend acquisition is subject to customary terms and conditions and may not be completed at all. The success of the NetSpend acquisition and other future acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating the acquired business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time consuming. The process of integrating the operations of NetSpend or any other future acquisition could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Following completion of the NetSpend acquisition, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of TSYS and NetSpend have achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, the success of the NetSpend acquisition will depend, in part, on the combined company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, including anticipated synergies and costs savings. Furthermore, in order to finance the acquisition of NetSpend, we expect to incur significant amounts of additional debt. Finally, any international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including for example: • managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • complying with foreign regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and • general economic and political conditions. Our business may be adversely affected by risks associated with foreign operations and, as we continue to expand internationally, we may incur higher than anticipated costs and will become more susceptible to these risks. We provide services to our clients worldwide. As a result, our revenues derived from international operations are subject to risk of loss from foreign currency exchange rates. Revenue and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We have not entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our foreign operations. In addition, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from international operations and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our revenues 8 Table of Contents derived from international operations are subject to risk of loss as a result of social instability and unfavorable political or diplomatic developments which could negatively impact our financial results. We may also incur higher than anticipated costs as we expand internationally and grow our international client base. If we are unable to successfully manage these expenses as our business expands, our financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We are involved in various litigation matters and from time to time may be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. For more information about our legal proceedings, see Item 3 of this annual report. We operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our financial position may be adversely affected. The market for payment processing services is intensely competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. We face direct competition from third parties, and since certain of our larger potential clients develop their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential clients’ in-house capacities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Changes in the laws, regulations, policies, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting our business may impose costly compliance burdens and negatively impact our business. There may be changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards that affect our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways in the U.S. as well as internationally. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations or standards to which we are subject in the U.S. as well as internationally, including 9 Table of Contents the card network rules and rules with respect to privacy and information security, may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation. Even if such a change to statutes, regulations or industry standards does not directly apply to us, the effects of such a change on our financial institution clients could result in material, indirect effects on the way we operate or the costs to operate our business and impair the demand for our services amongst our financial institution clients. We and the rest of the financial services industry continue to experience increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny, including the enactment of additional legislative and regulatory initiatives such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. This legislation provides for significant financial regulatory reform. The Reform Act, among other things, provides for the regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board of debit interchange fees that are typically paid by acquirers and charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction. The Reform Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with responsibility for regulating consumer financial products and services and enforcing most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services, including consumer credit. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau recently mandated that supervised financial institutions, including our clients, are required to ensure that their service providers are in compliance with applicable federal consumer laws, which may increase regulatory oversight and our cost of doing business. In addition, the Reform Act created a Financial Stability Oversight Council that has the authority to determine whether nonbank financial companies such as TSYS should be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board because they are systemically important to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business. The overall impact of the Reform Act on TSYS is difficult to estimate. Current and future regulations as a result of the Reform Act may adversely affect our business or operations, directly or indirectly (if, for example, our clients’ businesses and operations are adversely affected). In addition, we are subject to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we do business. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the value of tax losses and tax credits carry forwards recorded on our balance sheet and the amount of our cash flow and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings. We rely on financial institution sponsors in order to process Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover transactions. If these sponsorships are terminated and we are unable to secure new sponsors our business and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. In order to provide our Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover transaction processing services, we must be either a direct participant or be registered as a merchant processor or service provider of Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover. Registration as a merchant processor or service provider is dependent upon our being sponsored by member banks of these credit card companies. If our sponsor banks should stop providing sponsorship for 10 Table of Contents us, we would need to find another financial institution to provide those services or we would need to attain direct participation, either of which could prove to be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to find a replacement financial institution to provide sponsorship or attain direct participation, we may no longer be able to provide processing services to the affected customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to the business cycles and credit risk of our merchant customers and our independent sales organizations. A recessionary economic environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of business closures, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our merchants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder. Our merchants and ISOs are also liable for any fines, or penalties, that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event, however, that we are not able to collect such amounts from the merchants or ISOs, due to merchant fraud, breach of contract, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. We cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect our financial results. In the event a billing dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally “charged back” to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant’s account or reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operation. Fraud by merchants or others may adversely affect our financial results. We have potential liability for fraudulent bankcard transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud. While we have systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, we cannot assure the effectiveness of these measures. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our chargeback liability or other liability. Increases in chargebacks or other liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Operational failures could harm our business and reputation. An operational failure in our processing systems could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. Interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of penalties or other liabilities. A prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. We may also experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on platforms used by our clients. Any significant interruption or delay of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. In the rapidly developing legal framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our products and technology infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could limit our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims and require us to design around a third party’s patent, which may not be possible, or to license alternative technology from another party, which may be costly. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management and employees. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of highly skilled technical, management and sales and marketing personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing transaction processing industry and markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our key personnel would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our 12 Table of Contents ability to continue to attract, manage and retain additional qualified management and technical personnel. Competition for the best people, particularly those individuals with technology experience, is intense. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 