ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, · announcements of new services by us or our competitors, · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, · conditions in the energy recycling and saving services market, · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies involved in the same industry, · announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, · additions or departures of key personnel, · potential litigation, or · conditions in the market. In addition, the securities markets from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 5 Shareholders could experience substantial dilution. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our shareholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in the company. We have no present intention to pay dividends. We have not paid dividends or made other cash distributions on our common stock during any 2006, 2007 and 2008, and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings for working capital and to finance current operations and expansion of our business. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of shareholders. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of shareholders. As a result, these shareholders are able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions including business combinations. In addition, the occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to “penny stock” regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. A broker-dealer must also provide the customer with bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer, and our sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for stock that becomes subject to those penny stock rules. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our securities. Whenever any of our securities become subject to the penny stock rules, holders of those securities may have difficulty in selling those securities. Risks Related to Our Business Operations We depend on the waste energy of our customers to generate electricity. We acquire waste heat and gases from steelworks or cement plants and use these to generate power. Therefore, our power generating capacity depends on the availability of an adequate supply of our “raw materials” from our customers. If we do not have enough supply, power generated for those customers will be impeded. Since our contracts are often structured so that we receive compensation based on the amount of energy we supply, a reduction in production may cause problems for our revenues and results of operations. 6 The global financial crisis intensified in 2008 and will adversely affect our revenues. Although the Chinese government has indicated it will focus on keeping its economy on track, it is difficult to insulate any economy from the global financial crisis and economic downturn that intensified worldwide during 2008. After five years of growth in excess of 10 percent, the Chinese economy is beginning to weaken. Growth in exports and investment is slowing, consumer confidence is waning and stock and property markets are severely depressed. At a time when major infrastructure projects are being put off around the world, there are obvious slowdowns in China’s major industries, like iron and steel, construction and energy. Our customers in such industries may face more challenges and hardships than before and tend to take more conservative positions in their business and investment, including the purchase of TRT or CHPG systems. Our insurance may not cover all liabilities and damages. Our industry can be dangerous and hazardous. The insurance we carry might not be enough to cover all the liabilities and damages that may be caused by potential accidents. A downturn in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business. Our profitability, will decrease if less energy is consumed due to a downturn in the Chinese economy. Our heavy reliance on the experience and expertise of our management may cause adverse impacts on us if management member departs. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our company. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives or employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We may need more capital for the operation and failure to raise the capital we need may delay the development plan and reduce the profits. If we don’t have adequate income or our capital can’t meet the requirement for expansion of operations, we will need to seek financing to continue our business development. If we fail to acquire adequate financial resources at acceptable terms, we might have to postpone our proposed business development plans and reduce projections of our future incomes. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China China’s economic policy may affect our business. All of our assets are in China, and all of our revenue comes from business in China. Therefore, our business and prospects are tied to China’s economic, political and legal development. China’s economy has quickly developed over the past 20 years. The Chinese government has taken many measures to balance the economic development and the allocation of resources. Some measures may have adverse effect on our industry. For example, government’s excessive investment control and changes in tax law may have adverse impacts on us. 7 China’s economy had been changed from planned economy into market economy. In recent years, the government has taken many measures to strengthen market forces to reduce state-owned assets and set up joint ventures. However, a great portion of Chinese assets, still remains controlled by the government. In addition, the government plays a great role in industrial development. The great level of interference of government in the business and industrial development might have an adverse impact on us because we are not part of the state-owned business, and our relationship with the governmental authorities might not be as strong as those state-owned enterprises. China’s regulation of foreign currency exchange and cash out-flow may prevent us from remitting profits and dividends to the United States. China has adopted complicated rules that govern foreign currency exchange and cash out-flow. Although we believe we meet the requirements of those rules, we may not be able to remit all of our profits to the United States and distribute dividends to our shareholders if those rules are substantially changed to restrict the cash out-flow. Foreign currency exchange rate changes might also have negative impact on our financial performance. We may face the hindrance of China’s bureaucratic system. Foreign companies face the political, economic and legal risks when developing business in China. China’s bureaucratic system might hinder investment from foreign countries. The legal system in China has some uncertainties, which may affect the implementation of laws. The legal system in China is a system of civil laws, based on provisions and written codes, therefore precedents and cases are not binding on the future decisions of the courts. Only after 1979 did the Chinese government begin to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws that regulate economic affairs in general and encourage foreign investment in China. Although the influence of the law has been increasing, in certain rural areas the legal system and its enforcement are not well implemented. In addition, there have been constant changes and amendments of laws and regulations over the past 30 years in order to keep up with the rapidly changing society and economy in China. Because government agencies and courts provide interpretations of laws and regulations and decide contractual disputes and issues, their inexperience on new business and new polices or regulations in certain less developed areas causes uncertainty and may affect our business. In some provincial areas, the government agencies and the courts are protectionist and may not fully enforce contractual rights against local parties. In certain areas, the intellectual property and trade secret protections are not as effective as those in the other areas in China or in the U.S. in general. Consequently, we cannot clearly foresee the future direction of Chinese legislative activities on foreign invested business and effectiveness on enforcement of laws and regulations in the less developed areas in China. The uncertainties, including new laws and regulations and changes of existing laws, as well judicial interpretation by inexperienced officials in the agencies and courts in certain areas, may cause possible problems to foreign investors. Where You Can Find More Information We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s web site at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. ITEM 