ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. We could incur significant costs related to legal and environmental matters. We formerly manufactured lead pigments for use in paint. We and others have been named as defendants in various legal proceedings seeking damages for personal injury, property damage and governmental expenditures allegedly caused by the use of lead-based paints. These lawsuits seek recovery under a variety of theories, including public and private nuisance, negligent product design, negligent failure to warn, strict liability, breach of warranty, conspiracy/concert of action, aiding and abetting, enterprise liability, market share or risk contribution liability, intentional tort, fraud and misrepresentation, violations of state consumer protection statutes, supplier negligence and similar claims. The plaintiffs in these actions generally seek to impose on the defendants responsibility for lead paint abatement and health concerns associated with the use of lead-based paints, including damages for personal injury, contribution and/or indemnification for medical expenses, medical monitoring expenses and costs for educational programs. As with all legal proceedings, the outcome is uncertain. Any liability we might incur in the future could be material. See also Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings – Lead pigment litigation.” Certain properties and facilities used in our former operations are the subject of litigation, administrative proceedings or investigations arising under various environmental laws. These proceedings seek cleanup costs, personal injury or property damages and/or damages for injury to natural resources. Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts. Environmental obligations are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, and we may incur costs for environmental remediation in the future in excess of amounts currently estimated. Any liability we might incur in the future could be material. See also Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings – Environmental matters and litigation.” Our assets consist primarily of investments in our operating subsidiaries and affiliates, and we are dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries and affiliates. The majority of our operating cash flows are generated by our operating subsidiaries, and our ability to service liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock depends to a large extent upon the cash dividends or other distributions we receive from our subsidiaries and affiliates. Our subsidiaries and affiliates are separate and distinct legal entities and they have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay such cash dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, the payment of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on or taxation of dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions, foreign currency exchange regulations in jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, any other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements to which our subsidiaries may be a party, including debt instruments. Events beyond our control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, could adversely impact the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If our subsidiaries were to become unable to make sufficient cash dividends or other distributions to us, our ability to service our liabilities and to pay dividends on our common stock could be adversely affected. In this regard, in the first quarter of 2009 Kronos announced the suspension of its regularly quarterly dividend in consideration of the challenges and opportunities that exist in the TiO2 pigment industry. We currently believe that we will have sufficient liquidity to service our liabilities in 2009. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity.” In February 2009, our Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2009 cash dividend of $.125 per share to shareholders of record as of March 10, 2009 to be paid on March 26, 2009. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends, and the amount thereof, is discretionary and is dependent upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements for businesses, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. The amount and timing of past dividends is not necessarily indicative of the amount or timing of any future dividends which might be paid. There are currently no contractual restrictions on the amount of dividends which we may pay. In addition, a significant portion of our assets consist of ownership interests in our subsidiaries and affiliates. If we were required to liquidate any of such securities in order to generate funds to satisfy our liabilities, we may be required to sell such securities at a time or times at which we would not be able to realize what we believe to be the actual value of such assets. Many of the markets in which we operate are mature and highly competitive resulting in pricing pressure and the need to continuously reduce costs. Many of the markets CompX and Kronos serve are highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar products. CompX focuses efforts on the middle and high-end segment of the market where we feel that we can compete due to the importance of product design, quality and durability to the customer. However, our ability to effectively compete is impacted by a number of factors. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. · Competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs, especially those located in Asia. · Competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, which may enable them to more effectively withstand changes in market conditions. · Competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. · Consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the markets in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. · New competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities to manufacture products that compete with our products. · Our ability to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be cost-competitive. · Our ability to adjust costs relative to our pricing. · Customers may no longer value our product design, quality or durability over lower cost products of our competitors. Demand for, and prices of, certain of Kronos’ products are influenced by changing market conditions and Kronos is currently operating in a depressed worldwide market for its products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. A significant portion of our net income is attributable to sales of TiO2 by Kronos. Approximately 90% of Kronos’ revenues are attributable to sales of TiO2. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. The current world-wide economic downturn has depressed sales volumes in the fourth quarter of 2008, and we are unable to predict with a high degree of certainty when demand will return to the levels experience prior to the fourth quarter of 2008. This may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Historically, the markets for many of Kronos’ products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand. Relative changes in the selling prices for Kronos’ products are one of the main factors that affect the level of its profitability. In periods of increasing demand, Kronos’ selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand Kronos’ selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease. Huntsman announced the closure of one of its European facilities, and we believe that further shutdowns or closures in the industry are possible. The closures may not be sufficient to alleviate the current excess industry capacity and such conditions may be further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated capacity additions or other events. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is also subject to seasonal fluctuations. TiO2 sales are generally higher in the first half of the year. This is due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet demand during the spring and summer painting season. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may decrease our liquidity. Certain of the raw materials used in CompX’s products are commodities that are subject to significant fluctuations in price in response to world wide supply and demand. Coiled steel is the major raw material used in the manufacture of precision ball bearing slides and ergonomic computer support systems. Plastic resins for injection molded plastics are also an integral material for ergonomic computer support systems. Zinc is a principal raw material used in the manufacture of security products. Stainless steel tubing is the major raw material used in the manufacture of marine exhaust systems. These raw materials are purchased from several suppliers and are generally readily available from numerous sources. We occasionally enter into raw material supply arrangements to mitigate the short-term impact of future increases in raw material costs. Materials purchased outside of these arrangements are sometimes subject to unanticipated and sudden price increases. Should our vendors not be able to meet their contractual obligations or should we be otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we may incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels, either of which may decrease our liquidity as we may be unable to offset the higher costs with increased selling prices for our products. For Kronos, the number of sources for, and availability of, certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. Political and economic instability in the countries from which Kronos purchases raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. If Kronos’ worldwide vendors were not able to meet their contractual obligations and Kronos was unable to obtain necessary raw materials, Kronos might incur higher costs for raw materials or it might be required to reduce production levels. Kronos may not always be able to increase selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce its earnings and decrease liquidity. Our development of innovative features for our current component products is critical to sustaining and growing our sales. Historically, CompX’s ability to provide value-added custom engineered component products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of its success. We spend a significant amount of time and effort to refine, improve and adapt our existing products for new customers and applications. Since expenditures for these types of activities are not considered research and development expense under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the amount of our research and development expenditures, which is not significant, is not indicative of the overall effort involved in the development of new product features. The introduction of new products and features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products with potential customers. The ability to coordinate these activities may be affected by factors beyond CompX’s control. While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new product features that target customer-specific opportunities, we cannot assure you that any new products CompX introduces will achieve the same degree of success that it has achieved with its existing products. Introduction of new products typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel. As CompX attempts to introduce new product features in the future, we cannot assure you that CompX will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Recent and future acquisitions could subject us to a number of operational risks. A key component of CompX’s strategy is to grow and diversify its business through acquisitions. Our ability to successfully execute this component of our strategy entails a number of risks, including: · the identification of suitable growth opportunities; · an inaccurate assessment of acquired liabilities; · the entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience; · the diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; · the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses; · difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and · an increase in our indebtedness and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed. Kronos’ leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. As of December 31, 2008, Kronos had consolidated debt of approximately $638.5 million, the majority of which relates to Senior Secured Notes, a revolving credit facility of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Kronos International, Inc. and a note payable to us. Kronos’ level of debt could have important consequences to its stockholders (including us) and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for Kronos to satisfy its obligations with respect to its liabilities; · increasing its vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring that a portion of Kronos’ cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on its debt, which reduces its ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting its ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on its common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in Kronos’ business and the industry in which it operates; and · placing it at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors. In addition to Kronos’ indebtedness, Kronos is party to various lease and other agreements pursuant to which it is committed to pay approximately $365.5 million in 2009. Kronos’ ability to make payments on and refinance its debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, depends on Kronos’ future ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, Kronos’ ability to borrow funds under its subsidiaries’ credit facilities in the future will in some instances depend in part on these subsidiaries’ ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement. In this regard, we currently believe it is probable that one of Kronos’ required financial ratios associated with its European credit facility will not be maintained at some point during 2009, most likely commencing at March 31, 2009. Kronos has begun discussions with the lenders to amend the terms of the existing European credit facility to eliminate the requirement to maintain this financial ratio until at least March 31, 2010. While we believe it is possible that Kronos can obtain such an amendment to eliminate this financial ratio through at least March 31, 2010, there is no assurance that such amendment will be obtained, or if obtained that the requirement to maintain the financial ratio will be eliminated (or waived, in the event the lenders would only agree to a waiver and not an amendment to eliminate the covenant itself) through at least March 31, 2010. Any such amendment or waiver which Kronos might obtain could increase Kronos’ future borrowing costs, either from a requirement that it pay a higher rate of interest on outstanding borrowings or pay a fee to the lenders as part of agreeing to such amendment or waiver. In the event that Kronos would not be successful in obtaining the amendment or waiver of the existing European credit facility to eliminate the requirement to maintain the financial ratio, it would seek to refinance such facility with a new group of lenders with terms that did not include such financial covenant or, if required, it will use existing liquidity resources (which could include funds provided by affiliates). While there is no assurance that Kronos would be able to refinance the existing European credit facility with a new group of lenders, we believe these other sources of liquidity available to Kronos would allow it to refinance the existing European credit facility. If required, Kronos believes by undertaking one or more of these steps it will be successful in maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet its future obligations including operations, capital expenditures and debt service for the next 12 months. Kronos’ business may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable Kronos to pay its debts when they become due and to fund its other liquidity needs. As a result, Kronos may need to refinance all or a portion of its debt before maturity. Kronos may not be able to refinance any of its debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance Kronos’ debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Negative worldwide economic conditions could continue to result in a decrease in our sales and an increase in our operating costs, which could continue to adversely affect our business and operating results. If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, many of CompX’s direct and indirect customers may continue to delay or reduce their purchases of the components we manufacture or of the products that utilize our components. In addition, many of CompX’s customers rely on credit financing for their working capital needs. If the negative conditions in the global credit markets continue to prevent CompX’s customers' access to credit, product orders may continue to decrease which could result in lower sales. Likewise, if suppliers continue to face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials CompX uses to manufacture our products. These actions could continue to result in reductions in our sales, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Negative global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers' accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. CompX and Kronos extend credit and payment terms to some customers. Although we have an ongoing process of evaluating customers' financial conditions, we could suffer significant losses if a customer fails and is unable to pay. A significant loss of an account receivable would have a negative impact on our financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 