ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, and accordingly, your investment in our common stock, is subject to a number of risks. These risks could affect our operating results and liquidity. You should consider the following risk factors, among others, before investing in our common stock: Risks Related to our Business We rely on cooperative relationships with, and sponsorship by, banks, the absence of which may affect our operations. We currently rely on cooperative relationships with, and sponsorship by, banks in order to process our Visa, MasterCard and other bankcard transactions. We also rely on several banks for access to the Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) for submission of both credit card and check settlements. Our banking relationships are currently with smaller banks (with assets of less than $500,000,000). Even though smaller banks tend to be more susceptible to mergers or acquisitions and are therefore less stable, these banks find the programs we offer more attractive and we believe we cannot obtain similar relationships with larger banks at this time. A bank could at any time curtail or place restrictions on our processing volume because of its internal business policies or due to other adverse circumstances. If a volume restriction is placed on us, it could materially adversely affect our business operations by restricting our ability to process credit card transactions and receive the related revenue. Our relationships with our customers and merchants would also be adversely affected by our inability to process these transactions. We currently maintain one primary bankcard processing and sponsorship relationship with First Regional Bank in Agoura Hills, California. Our agreement with First Regional Bank continues through July 2010. We also maintain several banking relationships for ACH processing. While we believe our current bank relationships are sound, we cannot assure that these banks will not restrict our increasing processing volume or that we will always be able to maintain these relationships or establish new banking relationships. Even if new banking relationships are available, they may not be on terms acceptable to us. With respect to First Regional Bank, while we believe their ability to terminate our relationship is cost-prohibitive, they may determine that the cost of terminating their agreement is less than the cost of continuing to perform in accordance with its terms, and may therefore determine to terminate their agreement prior to its expiration. Ultimately, our failure to maintain these banking relationships and sponsorships may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Merchant fraud with respect to bankcard and ACH transactions could cause us to incur significant losses. We significantly rely on the processing revenue derived from bankcard and ACH transactions. If any merchants were to submit or process unauthorized or fraudulent bankcard or ACH transactions, depending on the dollar amount, ECHO could incur significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. ECHO assumes and compensates the sponsoring bank for bearing the risk of these types of transactions. We have implemented systems and software for the electronic surveillance and monitoring of fraudulent bankcard and ACH use. As of September 30, 2006, we maintained a dedicated chargeback reserve of $830,000 at our primary bank specifically earmarked for such activity. Additionally, through our sponsoring bank, as of September 30, 2006, we had access to approximately $19.3 million in merchant deposits to cover any potential chargeback losses. Despite a long history of managing such risk, we cannot guarantee that these systems will prevent fraudulent transactions from being submitted and processed or that the funds set aside to address such activity will be adequate to cover all potential situations that might occur. We do not have insurance to protect us from these losses. There is no assurance that our chargeback reserve will be adequate to offset against any unauthorized or fraudulent processing losses that we may incur. Depending on the size of such losses, our results of operations could be immediately and materially adversely affected. Excessive chargeback losses could significantly affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our agreements with our sponsoring bank require us to assume and compensate the bank for bearing the risk of “chargeback” losses. Under the rules of Visa and MasterCard, when a merchant processor acquires card transactions, it has certain contingent liabilities for the transactions processed. This contingent liability arises in the event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder’s favor. In such a case, the disputed transaction is charged back to the merchant and the disputed amount is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect this amount from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is unable to reimburse us for the chargeback due to merchant fraud, insolvency or other reasons, we will bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholders. A cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until the later of up to four months after the date a transaction is processed or the delivery of the product or service to present a chargeback to our sponsoring bank as the merchant processor. Therefore, management believes that the maximum potential exposure for the chargebacks would not exceed the total amount of transactions processed through Visa and MasterCard for the last four months and other unresolved chargebacks in the process of resolution. For the last four months through September 30, 2006, this potential exposure totaled approximately $609 million. At September 30, 2006, we, through our sponsoring banks, had approximately $131,000 of unresolved chargebacks that were in the process of resolution. At September 30, 2006, we, through our sponsoring banks, had access to $19.3 million belonging to our merchants. This money has been deposited at the sponsoring bank by the merchants to cover any potential chargeback losses. For the fiscal years 2006 and 2005, we processed approximately $1,775 million and $1,186 million, respectively, of Visa and MasterCard transactions, which resulted in $9.8 million in gross chargeback activities for the fiscal year ended 2006 and $7.1 million for the fiscal year ended 2005. Substantially all of these chargebacks were recovered from the merchants. Nevertheless, if we are unable to recover these chargeback amounts from merchants, having to pay the aggregate of any such amounts would significantly affect our results of operations and liquidity. Failure to participate in the Visa POS Check Service Program would cause us to significantly shift our operating and marketing strategy. We have significantly increased our infrastructure, personnel and marketing strategy to focus on the potential growth of our check services through the Visa POS Check Service Program. We currently provide critical back-end infrastructure for the service, including our NCN database for verification and our access to the Federal Reserve System’s Automated Clearing House for funds settlement and for checks written on bank accounts with banks not participating in the program. Because we believe the market will continue to gain acceptance of the Visa POS Check Service Program, we have expended significant resources to market our check conversion services and verification services to our merchant base, to solidify our strategic relationships with the various financial institutions that have chosen us as their Acquirer Processor and Third-Party processor under the program, and to sell our other check products such as electronic check re-presentments and check guarantee to the Visa member banks. We have also increased our personnel to handle the increased volume of transactions arising directly from our participation in the program. 14 Table of Contents Our failure to adequately market our services through this relationship could materially affect our marketing strategy going forward. Additionally, if we fail to adequately grow our infrastructure to address increases in the volume of transactions, cease providing services as a Third-Party processor or Acquirer Processor or are otherwise removed or terminated from the Visa Program, this would require us to dramatically shift our current operating strategy. Our inability to implement, and/or the inability of third-party software vendors to continue to support and provide maintenance services with respect to, the third-party vendors’ products, could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. We utilize various third-party software applications and depend on the providers of such software applications to provide support and maintenance services to us. In the event that a third-party software vendor fails to continue to support and maintain its software application, or fails to do so in a timely manner, this could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to ultimately implement, or a determination to cease the implementation of various of our software technology initiatives will significantly adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have spent significant time and monetary resources implementing several software technologies, which resulted in significant cost being capitalized by us as non-current software assets. The implementation of these technologies will provide us with substantial operational advantages that would allow us to attract and retain larger merchants, as well as the small and mid-market merchants that have been our target market. Management believes that the implementation of these software technologies, and the technologies themselves, continues to be in the best interests of, and the most viable alternative for, the Company. However, the inability to ultimately implement, or a determination to cease the implementation of these software technologies would cause these assets to become impaired, and the corresponding impairment would significantly adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our bankcard processing revenue is dependent on approximately 100 merchant accounts, several of which are very large merchants. The loss of a substantial portion of these accounts would adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on approximately 100 key merchant accounts for our organic growth and profitability. Two merchants accounted for approximately 16% of our bankcard processing revenue during the year ended September 30, 2006. The loss of those accounts or the loss of merchants from this select group could adversely affect our results of operations. The business activities of our merchants could affect our business and results of operations. We provide direct and back-end bankcard and check processing services to merchants across many industries. Several of these merchants provide consumers access to “Internet wallets,” which subsequently permit consumers to use funds in those “Internet wallets” to participate in gaming activities over the Internet. Our “Internet wallet” merchants collectively comprise approximately 38% of our check revenue, with one merchant who comprises approximately 17% and three merchants who comprise approximately 33% of our check revenue, respectively. To the extent any of these merchants conduct activities which are deemed illegal by future legislation (including regulations promulgated under the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act) or otherwise become involved in activities that incur civil liability from third parties, legal authorities or those third parties could attempt to pursue claims against us for aiding the activities of those merchants. While we believe that the services we provide do not directly aid in the activities of our merchants, and while we have no intent to assist any such activities, other than to provide general processing services consistent with past practice, any claims by legal authorities or third parties would require us to expend financial and management resources to address and defend such claims, the aggregate effect of which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Additionally, even if those legal authorities or third parties do not pursue claims against us, legislation could significantly affect our business operations and the business operations of those merchants. The loss of any of those merchants would have a significant affect on our business and results of operations. With respect to the affects of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act on our “Internet wallet” merchants, and correspondingly, on our business and results of operations, please see our discussion in the “Business” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 15 Table of Contents The business in which we compete is highly competitive and there is no assurance that our current products and services will stay competitive or that we will be able to introduce new products and services to compete successfully. We are in the business of processing payment transactions and designing and implementing integrated systems for our customers so that they can better use our services. This business is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, rapid rates of product obsolescence, and rapid rates of new product introduction. Our market share is relatively small as compared to most of our competitors and most of these competitors have substantially more financial and marketing resources to run their businesses. While we believe our small size provides us the ability to move quickly in some areas, our competitors’ greater resources enable them to investigate and embrace new and emerging technologies, to quickly respond to changes in customers’ needs, and to devote more resources to product and services development and marketing. We may face increased competition in the future and there is no assurance that current or new competition will allow us to keep our customers. If we lose customers, our business operations may be materially adversely affected, which could cause us to cease our business or curtail our business to a point where we are no longer able to generate sufficient revenue to fund operations. There is no assurance that our current products and services will stay competitive with those of our competitors or that we will be able to introduce new products and services to compete successfully in the future. If we are unable to process significantly increased volume activity, this could affect our operations and we could lose our competitive position. We have built transaction processing systems for check verification, check conversion, ACH processing, and bankcard processing activities. While current estimates regarding increased volume are within the capabilities of each system, it is possible that a significant increase in volume in one of the markets would exceed a specific system’s capabilities. To minimize this risk, ECHO has redesigned and upgraded its check related processing systems and has purchased a high end system to process bankcard activity. This system is still in its final phase of deployment and no assurance can be given that it would be able to handle a significant increase in volume or that the operational enhancements and improvements will be completed in time to avoid such a situation. In the event we are unable to process increases in volume, this could significantly adversely affect our banking relationships, our merchant customers and our overall competitive position, and could potentially result in violations of service level agreements which would require us to pay penalty fees to the other parties to those agreements. Losses of such relationships, or the requirement to pay penalties, may severely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We incur financial risk from our check guarantee service. The check guarantee business is essentially a risk management business. Any limitation of a risk management system could result in financial obligations being incurred by ECHO relative to our check guarantee activity. While ECHO has provided check guarantee services for several years, there can be no assurance that our current risk management systems are adequate to assure against any financial loss relating to check guarantee. ECHO is enhancing its current risk management systems and it is being conservative with reference to the type of merchants to which it offers guarantee services in order to minimize this risk but no assurance can be given that such measures will be adequate. During the year ended September 30, 2006, we incurred $451,000 in losses from uncollected guaranteed checks. Security breaches could impact our continued operations. We process confidential financial information and maintain several levels of security to protect this data. Security includes hand and card-based identification systems at our data center locations that restrict access to the specific facilities, various employee monitoring and access restriction policies, and various firewall and network management methodologies that restrict unauthorized access through the Internet. While these systems have worked effectively in the past, there can be no assurance that they will continue to operate without a security breach in the future. Depending upon the nature of the breach, the consequences of security breaches could be significant and dramatic to ECHO’s continued operations. 16 Table of Contents The industry in which we operate involves rapidly changing technology and our failure to improve our products and services or to offer new products and services could cause us to lose customers. Our business industry involves rapidly changing technology. Recently, we have observed rapid changes in technology as evidenced by the Internet and Internet-related services and applications, new and better software, and faster computers and modems. As technology changes, ECHO’s customers desire and expect better products and services. Our success depends on our ability to improve our existing products and services and to develop and market new products and services. The costs and expenses associated with such an effort could be significant to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to find the funds necessary to keep up with new technology or that if such funds are available that we can successfully improve our existing products and services or successfully develop new products and services. Our failure to provide improved products and services to our customers or any delay in providing such products and services could cause us to lose customers to our competitors. Loss of customers could have a material adverse effect on ECHO. Our inability to protect or defend our trade secrets and other intellectual property could hurt our business. We have expended a considerable amount of time and money to develop information systems for our merchants. We regard these information systems as trade secrets that are extremely important to our payment processing operations. We rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with employees, customers, partners and others to protect this intellectual property and have not otherwise taken steps to obtain additional intellectual property protection or other protection on these information systems. We cannot be certain that we have taken adequate steps to protect our intellectual property. In addition, our third-party confidentiality agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive position, including the loss of our merchant and bank customers. Such a loss could severely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, while we believe that the technology underlying our information systems does not infringe upon the rights of any third parties, there is no assurance that third parties will not bring infringement claims against us. We also have the right to use the technology of others through various license agreements. If a third party claimed our activities and/or these licenses were infringing their technology, while we may have some protection from our third-party licensors, we could face additional infringement claims or otherwise be obligated to stop utilizing intellectual property critical to our technology infrastructure. If we are not able to implement other technology to substitute the intellectual property underlying a claim, our business operations could be severely effected. Additionally, infringement claims would require us to incur significant defense costs and expenses and, to the extent we are unsuccessful in defending these claims, could cause us to pay monetary damages to the person or entity making the claim. Continuously having to defend such claims or otherwise making monetary damages payments could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not continue to invest in research and development, and/or otherwise improve our technology platforms, we could lose our competitive position. Because technology in the payment processing industry evolves rapidly, we need to continue to invest in research and development in both the bankcard processing business segment and the check-related products segment in order to remain competitive. This includes investments in our technology platforms to permit them to process higher transaction volumes, to transition some of these technologies to more commonly used platforms, to permit us to process foreign currency transactions, and to expand our point-of-sale connection capability for our bankcard processing services. Research and development expenses decreased from $1,609,000 in fiscal 2005 to $1,539,000 in fiscal 2006. Most of our development project costs were capitalized once we entered into coding and testing phases. We continue to evaluate projects, which we believe will assist us in our efforts to stay competitive. Although we believe that our investment in these projects will ultimately increase earnings, there is no assurance as to when or if these new products will show profitability or if we will ever be able to recover the costs invested in these projects. Additionally, if we fail to commit adequate resources to grow our technology on pace with market growth, we could quickly lose our competitive position, including the loss of our merchant and bank customers. 17 Table of Contents Failure to obtain additional funds can impact our operations and future growth. We use funds generated from operations, as well as funds obtained through credit facilities and equity financing, to finance our operations. In light of our recent financing efforts, and as a result of the cash flow generated from operations, we believe we have sufficient cash to support our business activities, including research, development and marketing costs. However, future growth may depend on our ability to continue to raise additional funds, either through operations, bank borrowings, or equity or debt financings. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to raise the funds necessary to finance growth or continue to generate the funds necessary to finance operations, and even if such funds are available, that the terms will be acceptable to us. The inability to generate the necessary funds from operations or from third parties in the future may require us to scale back our research, development and growth opportunities, which could harm our overall operations. While we maintain insurance protection against claims related to our services, there is no assurance that such protection will be adequate to cover potential claims and our inability to otherwise pay such claims could harm our business. We maintain errors and omissions insurance for the services we provide. While we believe the limit on our errors and omissions insurance policy is adequate and consistent with industry practice, if claims are brought by our customers or other third parties, we could be required to pay the required claim or make significant expenditures to defend against such claims in amounts that exceed our current insurance coverage. There is no assurance that we will have the money to pay potential plaintiffs for such claims if they arise beyond the amounts insured by us. Making these payments could have a material adverse effect on our business. Involvement in litigation could harm our business. We are involved in various lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. Although we believe that the claims asserted in such lawsuits are without merit, the cost to us for the fees and expenses to defend such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not at some time in the future experience significant liability in connection with such claims. During 2006, we spent approximately $702,000 in legal fees and expenses defending these claims. Our inability to recover from natural disasters could harm our business. We currently maintain two data centers: one in Camarillo, California, and one in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Should a natural disaster occur in any of the locations, it is possible that ECHO would not be able to fully recover full functionality at one of its data centers. To minimize this risk, ECHO centralized its data processing functionality in Camarillo during fiscal 2005 and completed a fully redundant site in Albuquerque in October of 2006. Despite such contingent capabilities, it is possible a natural disaster could limit or completely disable a specific service offered by ECHO until such time that the specific location could resume its functionality. Our inability to provide such service could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increases in the costs and requirements of technical compliance could harm our business. The services which ECHO offers require significant technical compliance. This includes compliance to both Visa and MasterCard regulations and association rules, NACHA guidelines and regulations with regard to the Federal Reserve System’s Automated Clearing House and check related issues, and various banking requirements and regulations. ECHO has personnel dedicated to monitoring our compliance to the specific industries we serve and when possible, ECHO is moving the technical compliance responsibility to other parties. As the compliance issues become more defined in each industry, the costs and requirements associated with that compliance may present a risk to ECHO. These costs could be in the form of additional hardware, software or technical expertise that ECHO must acquire and/or maintain. Additionally, burdensome or unclear requirements could increase the cost of compliance. While ECHO currently has these costs under control, we have no control over those entities that set the compliance requirements so no assurance can be given that ECHO will always be able to underwrite the costs of compliance in each industry wherein we compete. 18 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Our Common Stock If we need to sell or issue additional shares of common stock or assume additional debt to finance future growth, our stockholders’ ownership could be diluted or our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth, by acquiring complementary businesses or by establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so, or to fund our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our stockholders’ stock ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company and this could negatively impact our results of operations. As of the date of this report, management has no plan to raise additional capital through the sale of securities and believes that our cash flow from operations together with cash on hand and our established line of credit with Bank of the West will be sufficient to meet our working capital and other commitments. We have adopted a number of anti-takeover measures that may depress the price of our common stock. Our rights agreement, our ability to issue additional shares of preferred stock and some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to make an unsolicited takeover attempt of us. These anti-takeover measures may depress the price of our common stock by making it more difficult for third parties to acquire us by offering to purchase shares of our stock at a premium to its market price. Our stock price has been volatile. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and there can be substantial volatility in the market price of our common stock. Over the course of the quarter ended September 30, 2006, the market price of our common stock has been as high as $18.08, and as low as $13.16. Additionally, over the course of the year ended September 30, 2006, the market price of our common stock has been as high as $18.19 and as low as $9.00. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, loss of one or more customers, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of common stock and stock market price and volume fluctuations. In addition, general political and economic conditions such as a recession, or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have not paid and do not currently plan to pay dividends, and you must look to price appreciation alone for any return on your investment. Some investors favor companies that pay dividends, particularly in general downturns in the stock market. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth, and we do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Because we may not pay dividends, your return on this investment likely depends on your selling our stock at a profit. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 