ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Continued or worsening general economic or business conditions, particularly in Northern Indiana, where our business is concentrated, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate branch offices in five geographical markets concentrated in Northern Indiana and a single full service office in central Indiana located in the Indianapolis market. Our most mature market, the South Region, includes Kosciusko County and portions of contiguous counties. The Bank was founded in this market in 1872. Warsaw is this region’s primary city. The Bank entered the North Region in 1990, which includes portions of Elkhart and St. Joseph counties. This region includes the cities of Elkhart and South Bend. The Central Region includes portions of Elkhart County and contiguous counties and is anchored by the city of Goshen. The North and Central regions represent relatively mature markets with nearly 20 years of business activity. We entered the East Region in 1999, which includes Allen and DeKalb counties. Fort Wayne represents the primary city in this market. We have experienced rapid commercial loan growth in this market over the past 11 years. We entered the Indianapolis market in 2006 with the opening of a loan production office in Hamilton County and opened a full service retail and commercial branch in late 2011. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our customers’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Since late 2007, the United States economy has generally experienced difficult economic conditions. Certain areas of our geographical markets have seen notably worse economic conditions than those suffered by the country at-large. Weak economic conditions are characterized by, among other indicators, deflation, unemployment, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, increased delinquencies on mortgage, commercial and consumer loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of those factors are generally detrimental to our business. As reported for December 2011, the 13 counties in which we operate had unemployment rates between 6.1% and 11.2%. In particular, Elkhart County has suffered from adverse business and economic conditions that have resulted in a county-wide level of unemployment of approximately 11.2%, which is well above the national average of 8.3%. Our financial condition and the results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Indiana where adverse economic developments, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans and reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. If the overall economic conditions fail to significantly improve, particularly within our primary market areas in Northern Indiana, we could experience a lack of demand for our products and services, an increase in loan delinquencies and defaults and high or increased levels of problem assets and foreclosures. Moreover, because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past few years, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions across the United States. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and historically elevated unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by many financial institutions to their customers and to each other. These conditions have led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reductions in general business activity. Financial institutions have also generally experienced decreased access to borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers has adversely affected our industry and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: 33 Table of Contents · We may face further increased regulation of our industry especially as a result of increased rule making called for by the Dodd-Frank Act, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite the loans become less predictive of future behaviors. · Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties on favorable terms, or at all, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. · We expect to face increased capital requirements, both at the Company level and at the Bank level. In this regard, the Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Furthermore, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, recently announced an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations, known as Basel III. We expect U.S. banking authorities to follow the lead of Basel III and require all U.S. banking organizations to maintain significantly higher levels of capital, which may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. If we do not effectively manage our credit risk, we may experience increased levels of nonperforming loans, charge offs and delinquencies, which could require further increase in our provision for loan losses. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries, a centralized credit administration department and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review department. However, we cannot make assurances that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, and our market areas, specifically, fails to meaningfully improve, or even if it does, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require increases in the provision for loan losses, which would cause our net income and return on equity to decrease. The majority of the Bank’s loan portfolio is invested in commercial and commercial real estate loans. The Bank focuses on traditional commercial and industrial lending but is also involved in commercial real estate activity in its markets. In general, commercial loans represent higher dollar volumes to fewer customers. As a result, we may assume greater lending risks than other community banking-type financial institutions that have a lesser concentration of such loans and are more retail oriented. Commercial and industrial and agri-business loans make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Commercial and industrial and agri-business loans were $989.1 million, or approximately 44.3% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2011. Commercial loans are often larger and involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependant on the successful operation of the borrower involved, repayment of such loans is often more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the general economy. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on 34 Table of Contents the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. Whenever possible, we require a personal guarantee on commercial loans. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Due to the larger average size of each commercial loan as compared with other loans such as residential loans, as well as collateral that is generally less readily-marketable, losses incurred on a small number of commercial. Loans could adversely affect our business, results of operations and growth prospects. Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value. Commercial real estate loans were $852.5 million, or approximately 38.2% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2011. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Although a significant portion of such loans are secured by real estate as a secondary form of collateral, continued adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our consumer loans generally have a higher degree of risk of default than our other loans. At December 31, 2011, consumer loans totaled $46.0 million, or 2.1% of our total loan and lease portfolio. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to one-to-four family residential loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on these loans. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities rises more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest-bearing assets, which may cause our profits to decrease. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, i.e. when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. 35 Table of Contents Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our borrowers, which increases the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of the underlying property may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on the loans underlying our participation interests as borrowers refinance their mortgages at lower rates. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income. If short-term interest rates remain at their historically low levels for a prolonged period, and assuming long-term interest rates fall further, we could experience net interest margin compression as our interest earning assets would continue to reprice downward while our interest bearing liability rates could fail to decline in tandem. This would have a material adverse effect on our net interest income and our results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. We establish our allowance for loan losses and maintain it at level considered adequate by management to absorb loan losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Additions to the allowance for loan losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for loans losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in our market areas. The actual amount of loan losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other conditions within our markets, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 2.39% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was 135%. Because of the nature of our loan portfolio and our concentration in commercial and industrial loans, which tend to be larger loans, the movement of a small number of loans to nonperforming status can have a significant impact on these ratios. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses on any existing loans, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could result in further losses in the future. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our net income and returns on assets and equity, increasing our loan administration costs and adversely affecting our efficiency ratio. When we take collateral in foreclosure and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then fair market value, which may result in a loss. These nonperforming loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. The resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant time commitments from management and can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. If we experience increases in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets, our net interest income may be negatively impacted and our loan administration costs could increase, each of which could have an adverse effect on our net income and related ratios, such as return on assets and equity. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our business, results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial, negative effect on our liquidity. Our primary sources of funds consist of cash from operations, investment maturities and sales and deposits. Additional liquidity is provided by brokered deposits, Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (“CDARS”) deposits, repurchase agreements as well as our ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve and the FHLB. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in asset values and historically depressed levels of liquidity. The liquidity issues have been particularly acute for regional and community banks, as many of the larger financial institutions have curtailed their lending to regional and community banks to reduce their exposure to the risks of other banks. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders have reduced or even eliminated federal funds lines for their correspondent customers. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our stockholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. Any action or steps to change coverages or eliminate Indiana’s Public Deposit Insurance Fund could require us to find alternative, higher-cost funding sources to replace public fund deposits. Approximately 19% of our deposits are concentrated in public funds from a small number of municipalities and government agencies. The inability to maintain these funds on deposit could result in a material adverse effect on the Bank’s liquidity. A shift in funding away from public fund deposits would likely increase our cost of funds, as the alternate funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, are higher-cost, less favorable deposits. The inability to maintain these public funds on deposit could result in a material adverse effect on the Bank’s liquidity and could materially impact our ability to grow and remain profitable. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of our investments, financial performance and capital. We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, mortgage-backed securities. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the servicer of the securities or the mortgages underlying the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. On a monthly basis, we evaluate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. We may be required to record additional impairment charges if our investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the write-offs occur. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth, and our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income. In addition to our ongoing expansion in Indianapolis, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets through opportunistic acquisitions of all or part of other financial institutions, including FDIC-assisted transactions, or by opening new branches, although we do not have any current plans to do so. To the extent that we undertake acquisitions or new branch openings, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management’s time and attention and general disruption to our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions and branch openings, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve similar risks to those commonly associated with branching, but may also involve additional risks, including: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire; and · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire. 37 Table of Contents Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. We expect that other banking and financial service companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than us, will compete with us in acquiring other financial institutions if we pursue such acquisitions. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and stockholders’ equity per share of our common stock. We face intense competition in all phases of our business from other banks and financial institutions. The banking and financial services business in our market is highly competitive. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions, farm credit services and other nonbank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. Increased competition in our market may also result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. If increased competition causes us to significantly discount the interest rates we offer on loans or increase the amount we pay on deposits, our net interest income could be adversely impacted. If increased competition causes us to relax our underwriting standards, we could be exposed to higher losses from lending activities. Additionally, many of our competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, possess larger lending limits and offer a broader range of financial services than we can offer. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and, if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. The Company, on a consolidated basis, and the Bank, on a stand-alone basis, must meet certain regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. We face significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted. 38 Table of Contents Legislative and regulatory reforms applicable to the financial services industry may, if enacted or adopted, have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which requires significant changes to the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act, together with the regulations developed and to be developed thereunder, includes provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that will affect how community banks, thrifts and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future. Ultimately, the Dodd-Frank Act will, among other things, impose new capital requirements on bank holding companies; change the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base, and permanently raise the standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; and expand the FDIC’s authority to raise insurance premiums. The legislation also calls for the FDIC to raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to “offset the effect” of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes the Federal Reserve to limit interchange fees payable on debit card transactions, establish the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve, with broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay and prepayment penalties. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions that have affected and may further affect in the future corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly-traded companies. The Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, eliminates certain trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital, but certain trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or less will continue to be included in Tier 1 capital. This provision also requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Regulations implementing the Collins Amendment have not yet been issued. These provisions, or any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management continues to stay abreast of developments with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act, many provisions of which will continue to be phased-in over the next several months and years, and continues to assess its impact on our operations. However, the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, is uncertain at this time. The U.S. Congress has also recently adopted additional consumer protection laws such as the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, and the Federal Reserve has adopted numerous new regulations addressing banks’ credit card, overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. Such proposals and legislation, if finally adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot determine whether such proposals and legislation will be adopted, or the ultimate effect that such proposals and legislation, if enacted, or regulations issued to implement the same, would have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings. Much of our success and growth has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain the executive officers, management teams, branch managers and loan officers of our bank subsidiary will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 39 Table of Contents We have a continuing need for technological change and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market areas. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to a higher consolidated effective tax rate if there is a change in tax laws or if LCB Funding, Inc. fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust. The Bank holds certain investment securities in its wholly-owned subsidiary LCB Investments II, Inc., which is incorporated in Nevada. Pursuant to the State of Indiana’s current tax laws and regulations, we are not subject to Indiana income tax for income earned through that subsidiary. If there are changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof requiring us to pay state taxes for income generated by LCB Investments II, Inc., the resulting tax consequences could increase our effective tax rate or cause us to have a tax liability for prior years. The Bank also holds certain commercial real estate loans, residential real estate loans and other loans in a real estate investment trust through LCB Investments II, Inc. Qualification as a real estate investment trust involves application of specific provisions of the Internal Revenue Code relating to various asset tests. If LCB Funding, Inc. fails to meet any of the required provisions for real estate investment trusts, it could no longer qualify as a real estate investment trust and the resulting tax consequences would increase our effective tax rate or cause us to have a tax liability for prior years. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 