ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: A continued downturn in the economy, particularly in Northern Indiana, where our business is primarily conducted, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate branch offices in four geographical markets concentrated in Northern Indiana and a loan production office in central Indiana located in Indianapolis. Our most mature market, the South Region, includes Kosciusko County and portions of contiguous counties. The Bank was founded in this market in 1872. Warsaw is this region’s primary city. The Bank entered the North Region in 1990, which includes portions of Elkhart and St. Joseph counties. This region includes the cities of Elkhart and South Bend. The Central Region includes portions of Elkhart County and contiguous counties and is anchored by the city of Goshen. The North and Central regions represent relatively mature markets with nearly 20 years of business activity. We entered the East Region in 1999, which includes Allen and DeKalb counties. Fort Wayne represents the primary city in this market. We have experienced rapid commercial loan growth in this market over the past 10 years. We entered the Indianapolis market in 2006 with the opening of a loan production office in Marion County. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our customers’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. In late 2007 and all of 2008 and 2009, the United States economy experienced a severe downturn. Certain areas of our geographical markets have seen notably worse economic conditions than those suffered by the country at-large. As reported for November 2009, the 13 counties in which we operate had unemployment rates between 9.5% and 14.5%. In particular, Elkhart County has suffered from adverse business and economic conditions that have resulted in a county-wide level of unemployment of approximately 14.5%, which is well above the national average of 9.6%. A continued downturn in economic conditions, particularly within our primary market areas in Northern Indiana, could result in a decrease in demand for our products and services, an increase in loan delinquencies and defaults and high or increased levels of problem assets and foreclosures. Moreover, because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions across the United States. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by many financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reductions in general business activity. Financial institutions have also generally experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · we potentially face increased regulation of our industry and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; · customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates; · the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic 30 Table of Contents conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process; · the value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected; and · we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries, a centralized credit administration department and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review department. However, we cannot make assurances that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. The majority of the Bank’s loan portfolio is invested in commercial and commercial real estate loans. The Bank focuses on traditional commercial and industrial lending but is also involved in commercial real estate activity in its markets. In general, commercial loans represent higher dollar volumes to fewer customers. As a result, we may assume greater lending risks than other community banking-type financial institutions that have a lesser concentration of such loans and are more retail oriented. Commercial and industrial and agri-business loans make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Commercial and industrial and agri-business loans were $899.8 million, or approximately 44.7% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2009. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. Whenever possible, we require a personal guarantee on commercial loans. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value. Commercial real estate loans were $799.7 million, or approximately 39.7% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2009. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Although a significant portion of such loans are secured by real estate as a secondary form of collateral, continued adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our consumer loans generally have a higher degree of risk of default than our other loans. At December 31, 2009, consumer loans totaled $57.5 million, or 2.9% of our total loan and lease portfolio. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to one-to-four 31 Table of Contents family residential loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on these loans. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In February 2009, we accepted a capital investment of $56.0 million under the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, and in November 2009 we raised $57.9 million in a public offering of common stock to further strengthen our capital position. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired. Interest rates and other conditions impact our results of operations. Our profitability is significantly driven by the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities will be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. We measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios and using specific criteria and assumptions. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. We determined our allowance for loan losses pursuant to our established guidelines and practices and maintained a level considered adequate by management to absorb loan losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions (in our markets as well as the United States), including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.59% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was 105%. Because of the nature of our loan portfolio and our concentration in commercial and industrial loans, which tend to be larger loans, the movement of a small number of loans to nonperforming status can have a significant impact on these ratios. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses on any existing loans, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our business, results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our primary sources of funds consist of cash from operations, investment maturities and sales and deposits. Additional liquidity is provided by brokered deposits, CDARS deposits, repurchase agreements and our participation in the Federal Reserve Bank’s Term Auction Facility, as well as the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank. However, the Federal Reserve Bank’s Term Auction Facility will no longer be available after March 8, 2010. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as further disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. 32 Table of Contents Since late 2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 and much of 2009, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in asset values and by a lack of liquidity. The liquidity issues have been particularly acute for regional and community banks, as many of the larger financial institutions have significantly curtailed their lending to regional and community banks to reduce their exposure to the risks of other banks. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders have reduced or even eliminated federal funds lines for their correspondent customers. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our shareholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, approximately 20% of our deposits are concentrated in public funds from a small number of municipalities and government agencies. Public deposits can be cyclical in nature and are often reduced in June and December of each year. If these government entities withdraw their deposits at inopportune times, or if we lose one or more of these deposit customers, the Bank would need to find a replacement source of liquidity for the funds withdrawn. If the Bank is unable to find a replacement source of liquidity, the Bank’s liquidity could be adversely affected. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of our investments, financial performance and capital. We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, mortgage-backed securities. The market value of investments in our portfolio has become increasingly volatile over the past year. The market value of investments may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the servicer of the securities or the mortgages underlying the securities, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate and a lack of liquidity in the secondary market for certain investment securities. On a monthly basis, we evaluate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. We may be required to record additional impairment charges if our investments suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the write-offs occur. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth, and our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income. Although we do not have any current plans to do so, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets through opportunistic acquisitions of all or part of other financial institutions, including FDIC-assisted transactions, or by opening new branches. To the extent that we undertake acquisitions or new branch openings, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management’s time and attention and general disruption to our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions and branch openings, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve similar risks to those commonly associated with branching, but may also involve additional risks, including: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire; and · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire. 33 Table of Contents Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. We expect that other banking and financial service companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than us, will compete with us in acquiring other financial institutions if we pursue such acquisitions. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and we expect to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. Bank failures have significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the Deposit Insurance Fund’s ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a special assessment equal to five basis points of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, to be collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a uniform three basis-point increase in assessment rates, which is effective on January 1, 2011. Also, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule that required the Bank to prepay its quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, along with their risk-based assessment for the third quarter of 2009. We participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLG program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLG program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. The TLG was scheduled to end December 31, 2009, but the FDIC has extended it to June 30, 2010 at an increased charge of 15 to 25 basis points beginning January 1, 2010, depending on the depository institution’s risk assessment category rating assigned with respect to regular FDIC assessments if the institution elects to remain in the TLG. These changes have caused the premiums and TLG assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions have significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and are expected to increase our costs for the foreseeable future. We face intense competition in all phases of our business from other banks and financial institutions. The banking and financial services business in our market is highly competitive. Our competitors include large regional banks, local community banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions, farm credit services and other nonbank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. Increased competition in our market may also result in a decrease in the amounts of our loans and deposits, reduced spreads between loan rates and deposit rates or loan terms that are more favorable to the borrower. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and remain profitable. If increased competition causes us to significantly discount the interest rates we offer on loans or increase the amount we pay on deposits, our net interest income could be adversely impacted. If increased competition causes us to relax our underwriting standards, we could be exposed to higher losses from lending activities. Additionally, many of our competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, possess larger lending limits and offer a broader range of financial services than we can offer. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions. Regulations adopted by these 34 Table of Contents agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of shareholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. These bank regulators possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. We cannot predict the effect on our operations of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives that were enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis. United States federal, state and foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis. To the extent adopted, many of these actions have been in effect for only a limited time, and have produced limited or no relief to the capital, credit and real estate markets. There is no assurance that these actions or other actions under consideration will ultimately be successful. In the United States, the federal government has adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. With authority granted under these laws, the U.S. Treasury has proposed a financial stability plan that is intended to: · invest in financial institutions and purchase troubled assets and mortgages from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the United States financial markets; · temporarily increase the limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009 (which was extended to December 31, 2013 under the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009); and · provide for various forms of economic stimulus, including to assist homeowners restructure and lower mortgage payments on qualifying loans. Numerous other actions have been taken by the United States Congress, the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage crisis that commenced in 2007, including the financial stability plan adopted by the U.S. Treasury. In addition, President Obama recently announced a financial regulatory reform proposal, and the House and Senate are expected to consider competing proposals over the coming years. There can be no assurance that the financial stability plan proposed by the U.S. Treasury, the other proposals under consideration or any other legislative or regulatory initiatives will be effective at dealing with the ongoing economic crisis and improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not have adverse consequences. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, and market liquidity, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading prices of our securities. Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of ongoing challenges facing the United States economy, the potential exists for new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. 35 Table of Contents Changes in future rules applicable to TARP recipients could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On February 27, 2009, we issued $56.0 million of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, or the Series A Preferred Stock, to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the TARP Capital Purchase Program continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. Any redemption of the securities sold to the U.S. Treasury to avoid these restrictions would require prior Federal Reserve and U.S. Treasury approval. Based on guidelines recently issued by the Federal Reserve, institutions seeking to redeem TARP Capital Purchase Program preferred stock must demonstrate an ability to access the long-term debt markets without reliance on the FDIC’s TLG, successfully demonstrate access to public equity markets and meet a number of additional requirements and considerations before such institutions can redeem any securities sold to the U.S. Treasury. Our ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings, and the recent economic stimulus legislation imposes new compensation restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to do so. Much of our success and growth has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain the executive officers, management teams, branch managers and loan officers of our bank subsidiary will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that was signed into law in February 2009 includes extensive new restrictions on our ability to pay retention awards, bonuses and other incentive compensation during the period in which we have any outstanding securities held by the U.S. Treasury that were issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Many of the restrictions may not be limited to our senior executives and could cover other employees whose contributions to revenue and performance can be significant. The limitations may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain these key employees in addition to our senior executive officers, especially if we are competing for talent against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. The Federal Reserve, and perhaps the FDIC, are contemplating proposed rules governing the compensation practices of financial institutions and these rules, if adopted, may make it more difficult to attract and retain the people we need to operate our businesses and limit our ability to promote our objectives through our compensation and incentive programs. We have a continuing need for technological change and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market areas. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, 36 Table of Contents with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to a higher consolidated effective tax rate if there is a change in tax laws or if LCB Funding, Inc. fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust. The Bank holds certain investment securities in its wholly-owned subsidiary LCB Investments II, Inc., which is incorporated in Nevada. Pursuant to the State of Indiana’s current tax laws and regulations, we are not subject to Indiana income tax for income earned through that subsidiary. If there are changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof requiring us to pay state taxes for income generated by LCB Investments II, Inc., the resulting tax consequences could increase our effective tax rate or cause us to have a tax liability for prior years. The Bank also holds certain commercial real estate loans, residential real estate loans and other loans in a real estate investment trust through LCB Investments II, Inc. Qualification as a real estate investment trust involves application of specific provisions of the Internal Revenue Code relating to various asset tests. If LCB Funding, Inc. fails to meet any of the required provisions for real estate investment trusts, or there are changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof, it could no longer qualify as a real estate investment trust and the resulting tax consequences would increase our effective tax rate or cause us to have a tax liability for prior years. ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 37 Table of Contents 