Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that our management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business and operations. A substantial portion of Terra’s operating expense is related to the cost of natural gas, and an increase in such cost that is either unexpected or not accompanied by increases in selling prices of products could result in reduced profit margins and lower product production. The principal raw material used to produce nitrogen products is natural gas. Natural gas costs in 2007 comprised about 44% of total costs and expenses. A significant increase in the price of natural gas (which can be driven by, among other things, supply disruptions, governmental or regulatory actions, cold weather and oil price spikes) that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of related nitrogen products could result in reduced profit margins and lower product production. We have previously idled one or more of our plants in response to high natural gas prices. A significant portion of our competitors’ global nitrogen production occurs at facilities with access to fixed-priced and/or product related natural gas supplies, similar to our gas supply contract in Trinidad. The natural gas costs for these competitors’ facilities have been and likely will continue to be substantially lower than our costs. Declines in the prices of our products may reduce profit margins. Prices for nitrogen products are influenced by the global supply and demand conditions for ammonia and other nitrogen-based products. Long-term demand is affected by population growth and rising living standards that determine food consumption. Short-term demand is affected by world economic conditions and international trade decisions. Supply is affected by increasing worldwide capacity and the increasing availability of nitrogen product exports from major producing regions such as the former Soviet Union, Canada, the Middle East, Trinidad and Venezuela. New global ammonia capacity is expected abroad in the foreseeable future. If this anticipated growth in new capacity exceeds the growth in demand, the price at which we sell our nitrogen products may decline, resulting in reduced profit margins, lower production of products and potential plant closures. Supply in the U.S. and Europe is also affected by trade regulatory measures, which restrict import supply into those markets. Changes in those measures would likely adversely impact available supply and pricing. Our products are subject to price volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause the results of operations to fluctuate. Historically, the prices for our products have reflected frequent changes in supply and demand conditions. Changes in supply result from capacity additions or reductions and from changes in inventory levels. Demand for products is dependent on demand for crop nutrients by the global agricultural industry and on the level of industrial production. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production until supply exceeds demand, followed by periods of declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle is repeated. In addition, markets for our products are affected by general economic conditions. As a result of periodic imbalances of supply and demand, product prices have been volatile, with frequent and significant price changes. During periods of oversupply, the price at 15 Table of Contents which we sell our products may be depressed and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are global commodities and we face intense competition from other producers. Our products are global commodities and can be subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Customers, including end-users, dealers and other crop-nutrient producers and distributors, base their purchasing decisions principally on the delivered price and availability of the product. We compete with a number of U.S. producers and producers in other countries, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. The U.S. and the European Commission each have implemented trade regulatory measures which are designed to address this type of unfair trade. Changes in these measures could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability of the particular products involved. Some of our principal competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from nitrogen fertilizer sales. In addition, a portion of global production benefits from natural gas contracts that have been, and could continue to be, substantially lower priced than our natural gas. Our inability to compete successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect sales and profitability. Our business is subject to risks related to weather conditions. Adverse weather conditions may have a significant effect on demand for the Company’s nitrogen products. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing season may cause agricultural customers to use less or different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the product that we sell. Weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to pay our customers. Weather and/or weather forecasts can dramatically affect the price of natural gas, our main raw material. Colder than normal winters as well as warmer than normal summers increase the natural gas demand for residential use. Also, hurricanes affecting the gulf coastal states can severely impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise sharply. Our risk measurement and hedging activities might not prevent losses. We manage commodity price risk for our businesses as a whole. Although we implemented risk measurement systems that use various methodologies to quantify the risk, these systems might not always be followed or might not always work as planned. Further, such risk measurement systems do not in themselves manage risk, and adverse changes involving volatility, adverse correlation of commodity prices and the liquidity of markets might still adversely affect earnings and cash flows, as well as the balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks have been identified. The ability to manage exposure to commodity price risk in the purchase of natural gas through the use of financial derivatives may be affected by limitations imposed by our bank agreement covenants. In an effort to manage financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with its assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no 16 Table of Contents single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract or industry. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. We may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows could be impacted by counterparty default. We are substantially dependent on our manufacturing facilities, and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Our manufacturing operations may be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident, equipment failure or were damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. For example, an explosion at our Port Neal, Iowa facility in 1994 required us to rebuild nearly the entire facility, and a June 1, 2006 explosion shut down the ammonia production plant in Billingham, England until repairs were completed in August 2006. In addition, approximately four weeks of unplanned outages at our Point Lisas Nitrogen facility during the 2006 third quarter to repair failing heat exchangers were only partly successful and the plant operated at about 80% of capacity until replacement exchangers were installed during a scheduled turnaround in early 2007. Also, a mechanical outage at the Courtright, Ontario facility in April 2001 required us to shut down that facility for approximately two months. We currently maintain property insurance, including business interruption insurance, but it may not have sufficient coverage, or may be unable in the future to obtain sufficient coverage at reasonable costs. We may be adversely affected by environmental laws or regulations to which it is subject. Our U.S., Canadian and U.K. operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, including laws relating to air quality, hazardous and solid materials and wastes, water quality, investigation and remediation of contamination, transportation and worker health and safety. We could incur substantial costs, including capital expenditures for equipment upgrades, fines and penalties and third-party claims for damages, as a result of compliance with, violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. We are also involved in the manufacturing, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous or toxic by federal, state, provincial or other regulatory agencies. If such materials have been or are disposed of or released at sites that require investigation and/or remediation, Terra may be responsible under “CERCLA,” or analogous laws for all or part of the costs of such investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. Under some of these laws, responsible parties may be held jointly and severally liable for such costs, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal or release. We have liability as a potentially responsible party at certain sites under certain environmental remediation laws, and have also been subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and possible personal injury arising from contamination relating to active as well as discontinued operations. We may be subject additional liability or additional claims in the future. Some of these matters may require expenditure of significant amounts for investigation and/or cleanup or other costs. 17 Table of Contents We may be required to install additional pollution control equipment at certain facilities in order to maintain compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations. We may be required to install additional air and water quality control equipment, such as low emission burners, scrubbers, ammonia sensors and continuous emission monitors, at certain of our facilities to comply with applicable environmental requirements. Such investments would reduce income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position or net cash flows. Government regulation and agricultural policy may reduce the demand for our products. Existing and future government regulations and laws may reduce the demand for our products. Existing and future agricultural and/or environmental laws and regulations may impact the amounts and locations of fertilizer application and may lead to decreases in the quantity of nitrogen fertilizer applied to crops. Changes in U.S. energy policies may affect the demand for our nitrogen products. Any such decrease in the demand for fertilizer products could result in lower unit sales and lower selling prices for nitrogen fertilizer products. U.S. and E.U. governmental policies affecting the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted and crop prices could also affect the demand and selling prices of our products. In addition, we manufacture and sell ammonium nitrate (AN) in the U.S., and in the U.K. through its GrowHow joint venture. Ammonium nitrate can be used as an explosive and was used in the Oklahoma City bombing in April 1995. It is possible that either the U.S. or U.K. governments could impose limitations on the use, sale or distribution of AN, thereby limiting our ability to manufacture or sell this product. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. Our international business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; currency fluctuations; tax rates that may exceed those in the U.S.; earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; and the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions. During 2007, we derived approximately 16% of our net sales from outside of the U.S. Terra’s business operations include a 50% interest in an ammonia production joint venture in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and a 50% interest in a U.K. joint venture for the production of ammonia, and a 50% interest in an ammonia shipping joint venture that provides transportation of ammonia from the Trinidad facility to the U.S. and other world markets. Our business may be adversely impacted by our leverage, which may require the use of a substantial portion of excess cash flow to service debt and may limit our access to additional capital. Our debt could have important consequences on our business. For example, it could (i) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting flexibility in reacting to changes in the business industry, (ii) reduce our cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less leverage and (iv) limit our ability to borrow additional funds and increase the cost of funds that we can borrow. We may not be able to reduce our financial leverage when we choose to do so, and may not be able to raise capital to fund growth opportunities. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to finance a change of control offer. If we consider an offer that would result in a “change of control” (as defined in its bond indentures and the instruments governing its Series A convertible preferred shares), it may need to refinance large amounts of debt. If a change of control occurs, we must offer to buy back the notes under its indenture governing its 7% senior notes due 2017 and the Series A convertible preferred shares for a price equal to 101% of the notes’ principal amount or 100% of the liquidation value of the Series A convertible preferred shares, as applicable, plus any interest or dividends which have accrued and remain unpaid as of the repurchase date. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient funds available for any repurchases that could be required by a change of control. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 