Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 20 Executive Officers of Terra 21 Part II Item 5. Market for Terra’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 90 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of Terra 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 94 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 94 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Signatures 106 Index to Financial Statement Schedules, Reports and Consents S-1 Certificate of Incorporation By-Laws Form of Long-Term Incenitve Award Form of Long-Term Incentive Award 2006 Officers and Key Employees Incentive Plan Description of Compensatory Arrangements Ratio of Earnings to Financial Charges Subsidiaries Subsidiaries 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Section 906 Certification Financial Statements Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Terra Industries Inc., a Maryland corporation, is referred to as “Terra,” or “the Company” throughout this report. References to Terra also include the direct and indirect subsidiaries of Terra Industries Inc. where required by the context, including Mississippi Chemical Corporation (“MCC”), which Terra acquired in December 2004. Subsidiaries not wholly-owned by Terra include a limited partnership, Terra Nitrogen Company, L.P. (“TNCLP”), which, through its subsidiary, Terra Nitrogen, Limited Partnership, operates Terra’s manufacturing facility at Verdigris, Oklahoma. Terra is the sole general partner and the majority limited partner of TNCLP. Terra’s principal corporate office is located at Terra Centre, 600 Fourth Street, P.O. Box 6000, Sioux City, Iowa 51102-6000 and its telephone number is (712) 277-1340. Terra makes available free of charge through its website, www.terraindustries.com, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Terra’s internet website and the information contained or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business Overview Terra is a leading North American and U.K. producer and marketer of nitrogen products, serving agricultural and industrial markets. In addition, Terra owns a 50% interest in Point Lisas Nitrogen Limited (“PLNL”), an ammonia production joint venture in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. Terra is one of the largest North American producers of ammonia, the basic building block of nitrogen fertilizers. The Company upgrades a significant portion of the ammonia it produces into higher value products, which are easier for distributors and farmers to transport, store and apply to crops than ammonia. Terra owns nine manufacturing facilities in North America and the U.K. capable of producing nitrogen products. Two of these facilities (Beaumont, Texas and Woodward, Oklahoma) can also produce methanol. The Beaumont, Texas facility, which historically has been a significant methanol producer, was mothballed in December 2004 and remains out of production. Terra’s business is organized into a nitrogen business segment and a methanol business segment. The methanol segment has become less significant to the Company’s business since the closing of the Beaumont, Texas facility. Nitrogen is both a global and local commodity: global because it is produced and traded in almost all regions of the world, local because fertilizer customers display preferences for nitrogen in one of four basic forms based upon local conditions. The principal forms of globally traded nitrogen fertilizer are ammonia (82% nitrogen by weight) and urea (46% nitrogen by weight). Ammonium nitrate (AN) (34% nitrogen by weight) is traded to a lesser extent, primarily in international markets. Urea ammonium nitrate solutions (UAN) (28% to 32% nitrogen by weight) have only recently been traded in international markets. UAN is less likely to be traded internationally because it carries relatively high transportation costs due to its high water content. Because transportation is a significant component of a customer’s total product cost, a key to competitiveness in the nitrogen business is proximity to the end user, which allows 1 Table of Contents a supplier to have the lowest delivered cost for the customer’s product of choice. In addition, a supplier must provide a reliable source of product. The locations of Terra’s North American production facilities provide Terra a competitive advantage in serving agricultural customers in the Corn Belt and other major agricultural areas in the United States and Canada. Terra’s U.K. facilities are able to serve competitively the entire British agricultural market. The Point Lisas ammonia production facility in Trinidad and Tobago serves U.S. and international nitrogen markets and benefits from access to low-cost natural gas supplies. Terra’s facilities have the following production capacities: Annual Capacity1 Location Ammonia2 UAN3 AN4 Urea5 Methanol6 Beaumont, Texas7 255,000 — — — 225,000,000 Donaldsonville, Louisiana8 500,000 — — — — Port Neal, Iowa 370,000 840,000 — 60,000 — Verdigris, Oklahoma 1,050,000 2,200,000 — — — Woodward, Oklahoma9 440,000 340,000 — 25,000 40,000,000 Yazoo City, Mississippi10 500,000 600,000 775,000 11 7,000 — Courtright, Ontario 480,000 400,000 — 175,000 — Severnside, U.K. 265,000 — 500,000 — — Billingham, U.K.12 550,000 — 520,000 — — Point Lisas, Trinidad and Tobago13 360,000 — — — — Total 4,770,000 4,380,000 1,795,000 267,000 265,000,000 1. Annual capacity includes an allowance for planned maintenance shutdowns. 2. Measured in gross tons of ammonia produced; net tons available for sale will vary with upgrading requirements. 3. Measured in tons of UAN containing 28% nitrogen by weight. 4. Measured in tons. 5. Urea is sold as urea liquor from the Port Neal, Woodward and Yazoo City facilities and as either granular urea or urea liquor from the Courtright facility. Production capacities shown are for urea sold in tons. 6. Measured in gallons. 7. The Beaumont facility was mothballed in December 2004 and remains out of production. The Beaumont plant capacity depends on product mix (ammonia/methanol). 8. The Donaldsonville facility’s manufacturing capacity consists of a single ammonia plant. This plant was mothballed in January 2005 and remains out of production. 9. Woodward’s plant capacity depends on product mix (ammonia/methanol). 10. The Yazoo City facility also produces merchant nitric acid; sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were 40,000 product tons. 11. Terra’s full AN capacity at Yazoo City is 835,000 tons, however such production would limit Yazoo City’s UAN production to approximately 450,000 tons and increase urea production to 45,000 tons. 12. The Billingham, England facility also produces merchant nitric acid; sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 were 267,000 product tons. 13. The Point Lisas plant capacity represents Terra’s 50% interest. 2 Table of Contents The principal customers for Terra’s North American nitrogen products are national agricultural retail chains, farm cooperatives, independent dealers and industrial customers. Industrial customers use nitrogen products to manufacture chemicals, plastics and other products such as acrylonitrile, polyurethanes, fibers, explosives and adhesives; to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other emissions from power plants; and in water treatment processes. In July 2005, Terra announced it had entered into a 10-year renewable agreement to supply industrial grade ammonium nitrate and ammonium nitrate solution to Orica USA Inc. from its Yazoo City facility. % of Total U.S. U.K. 2005 Terra Capacity Capacity Product Revenues1 Position Position Ammonia 30.1 % 2 1 UAN 36.5 % 1 * AN 17.8 % 1 1 Urea 3.6 % 4 * Methanol 1.4 % 1 * 1 Revenues from sales of carbon dioxide, nitric acid and other nitrogen products and services, as well as industrial sales in the U.K., represented 10.5% of Terra’s total revenues for 2005. * Terra does not compete in these markets. Agricultural customers accounted for approximately 70% and industrial customers approximately 30% of Terra’s North American nitrogen product revenue in 2005. In the U.K., revenues are divided approximately equally between agricultural and industrial customers. For more information on the nitrogen business, see the discussion under “Nitrogen Business Segment” below. In December 2003, Terra entered into contracts with the Methanex Corporation (“Methanex”), providing it exclusive rights to all methanol production at the Beaumont facility for five years. In December 2004, this facility was mothballed. As long as the Beaumont facility remains idle through the December 2008 termination of the Methanex contract, Terra will continue to realize revenues relating to the facility of up to $16.4 million per year consisting of $4.4 million from annual amortization of deferred revenues plus one-half of the annual cash margin, if any, based on the plant’s methanol production capacity, reference prices and natural gas costs. There was no 2005 Beaumont cash margin. Terra also entered into an agreement for Methanex to market, under a commission arrangement, all methanol produced at the Woodward facility. For more information on the methanol business, see the discussion under “Methanol Business Segment” below. Nitrogen Business Segment Terra is a leading producer and marketer of nitrogen products, principally fertilizers. The Company upgrades a significant portion of the ammonia it produces into other nitrogen products, such as urea, ammonium nitrate (AN) and urea ammonium nitrate solutions (UAN). Ammonia, AN, urea and UAN are the principal nitrogen products the Company produces and sells in North America. Terra produces and sells primarily ammonia and AN in the U.K. The Point Lisas production facility in Trinidad provides ammonia for sale into both the U.S. and international nitrogen markets. Other products Terra manufactures include nitric acid, dinitrogen tetroxide and carbon dioxide. These products, along with a portion of Terra’s ammonia, AN and urea production, are used in non-agricultural applications. In late 2003, Terra formed its Terra Environmental Technologies division to provide products and services to customers using nitrogen products (primarily ammonia, aqua ammonia and liquid and dry urea) to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from various sources, including power plants, and in other environmental processes such as water treatment plants. 3 Table of Contents Although the different nitrogen fertilizer products are interchangeable to some extent, each has its own characteristics which make one product or another preferable to the end-user. Terra’s plants are designed to provide the fertilizer products preferred by end-users in the regions in which they are located. These preferences vary according to the crop planted, soil and weather conditions, regional farming practices, relative prices, and the cost and availability of storage, handling and application equipment. Terra’s nitrogen products and its 2005 production are described in greater detail below. Anhydrous Ammonia Anhydrous ammonia (or “ammonia”) is the simplest form of nitrogen fertilizer and the feedstock for the production of other nitrogen fertilizers, including urea, AN and UAN. Ammonia is also widely used in industrial applications. With the acquisition of Mississippi Chemical Corporation in December 2004, Terra became the leading U.S. producer of ammonia. Ammonia is produced when natural gas reacts with steam and air at high temperatures and pressures in the presence of catalysts. Ammonia has a nitrogen content of 82% by weight and is generally the least expensive form of fertilizer on a per-pound-of- contained-nitrogen basis. Although generally the cheapest source of nitrogen available to agricultural customers, ammonia can be less desirable to end-users than urea, AN and UAN because of its need for specialized application equipment and its limited application flexibility. In 2005, Terra produced approximately 2,795,000 tons of ammonia at its North American facilities and approximately 758,000 tons of ammonia at its U.K. facilities. The Company is obligated by contract through 2018 to purchase one-half of the ammonia produced by Point Lisas Nitrogen in Trinidad at a discount to market, subject to a minimum price. In 2005, Terra purchased approximately 359,000 tons pursuant to its contract with Point Lisas Nitrogen. Terra sold a total of 1,898,000 tons of ammonia worldwide in 2005 and consumed approximately 2,507,000 tons of ammonia as a raw material to manufacture its other nitrogen products. Urea Ammonium Nitrate Solutions (UAN) UAN is a liquid fertilizer and, unlike ammonia, is odorless and does not require refrigeration or pressurization for transportation or storage. UAN is produced by combining liquid urea, liquid ammonium nitrate and water. The nitrogen content of UAN ranges from 28% to 32% by weight. (Unless specifically stated to the contrary, all references to UAN herein shall be to 28%.) Because of its high water content, UAN is relatively expensive to transport, making it largely a regionally distributed product. UAN can be applied to crops directly or mixed with crop protection products, permitting the application of several materials simultaneously, reducing energy and labor costs and accelerating field preparation for planting. UAN may be applied from ordinary tanks and trucks and sprayed or injected into the soil, or applied through irrigation systems. In addition, UAN may be applied throughout the growing season, providing significant application flexibility. Due to its stability, UAN (like AN) may be used for no-till row crops where fertilizer is spread on the surface of the soil and is subject to evaporation losses. Terra produced approximately 4,206,000 tons of UAN at its North American facilities in 2005 and sold approximately 4,368,0000 tons of UAN in 2005, primarily to U.S. fertilizer dealers and distributors. 4 Table of Contents Ammonium Nitrate (AN) Terra is the largest manufacturer and marketer of agricultural-grade AN fertilizer in the U.S. and produces AN at two facilities in the U.K. AN is produced by combining nitric acid and ammonia into a liquid form which is then converted to a solid, largely for fertilizer applications. The nitrogen content of AN is 34% by weight. AN is less subject to volatilization (evaporation) losses than other nitrogen products. Due to its stability, AN is often the product of choice for pastures and “no-till” crops (that is, where the soil is not plowed prior to planting) where fertilizer is spread upon the surface and is subject to evaporation losses. The Company produced approximately 643,000 tons of solid AN at its Yazoo City, Mississippi facility and approximately 1,054,000 tons of solid AN at its U.K. facilities in 2005. During this same period, the Company sold approximately 672,000 tons in the U.S. and 909,000 tons in the U.K. Urea Urea is produced by converting ammonia and carbon dioxide into liquid urea, which can be further processed into a solid, granular form. Urea is used for fertilizer and animal feed as well as in industrial applications. Granular urea has a nitrogen content of 46% by weight, the highest level of any solid nitrogen product. Terra produces both a granulated form of urea, generally for the fertilizer market, and urea liquor (liquid) for animal feed supplements and industrial applications. In 2005, Terra produced approximately 235,000 tons of urea and urea liquor, all of it at North American plants. During this period, the Company sold approximately 247,000 tons of urea and urea liquor. Nitric Acid Nitric acid is made by oxidizing ammonia with air. The product is used as a raw material for other nitrogen products and by industrial customers to produce such products as nylon fibers, polyurethane foams and specialty fibers. In 2005, the Company produced approximately 893,000 tons of nitric acid worldwide. Approximately 320,000 of these tons were sold to industrial users and the remainder was used as a raw material for the production of Terra’s other nitrogen products. Dinitrogen Tetroxide Dinitrogen tetroxide (N2O4) is the propellant oxidizer used in various satellite, rocket and missile propulsion systems. It is also used by industrial customers in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals. Dinitrogen tetroxide is produced by cooling and condensing a slipstream of process gas from a nitric acid plant containing various oxides of nitrogen. The recovered product is filtered and its composition adjusted to meet final product specifications. Terra manufactured approximately 95,000 pounds of the product in 2005. Marketing and Distribution Terra’s customers are broadly segregated into two groups: (1) North American customers, including those receiving shipments of imported product from the Point Lisas Nitrogen facility, and (2) U.K. customers, including export sales to continental Europe and Australia. 5 Table of Contents The principal customers for Terra’s North American manufactured nitrogen products fall into two broad categories – agricultural fertilizer customers and industrial customers. The agriculture customers consist of independent dealers, national retail chains, and cooperatives. These agricultural customers, in turn, sell product to dealers, farmers and other users. Industrial customers use nitrogen products as a feedstock for a variety of chemical processes, in the manufacture of pulp, paper, fibers and to control nitrous oxide (NOx) emissions from power plants. Nearly all of Terra’s industrial customers are end-users. The Company’s agricultural and industrial customers are located primarily in the Gulf, midwestern plains and southern regions of the U.S. where the Company’s facilities are located. It is Terra’s objective to ship as much of its North American production as possible directly from its manufacturing facilities to its customers. Its five North American production facilities have total storage capacity for 190,000 tons of ammonia and 240,000 tons of UAN. Terra’s Donaldsonville terminal has ready access to rail, truck and ammonia pipeline transportation and permits economical oceangoing vessel and barge transportation for imports and exports of nitrogen products. The terminal includes two ammonia storage tanks, each with a capacity of 30,000 tons, and can receive ocean-going vessels carrying up to 44,000 tons of ammonia. During 2005, the terminal received and shipped approximately 725,000 and 742,000 tons of ammonia, respectively. Terra is currently expanding the terminal’s capabilities by constructing a new UAN solution tank with a 50,000 ton capacity. Terra expects this tank and related receiving and shipping equipment to be completed by December 2006 and to cost approximately $8.5 million. In July 2005 Terra sold to a subsidiary of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners Terra’s terminal assets in Blytheville, Arkansas, consisting of storage and supporting infrastructure for 40,000 tons of AN, 9,500 tons of UAN and 40,000 tons of urea. In conjunction with this sale of assets, Terra has entered into a long-term agreement to lease from Kinder Morgan exclusively these terminal assets. This arrangement will maintain Terra’s distribution capabilities in the Blytheville, Arkansas region. Terra owns a 50% interest in the Houston Ammonia Terminal, located on the Houston Ship Channel near Pasadena, Texas. This entity has two 15,000 ton ammonia storage tanks which provide ammonia to industrial customers in the area via a pipeline system capable of shipping approximately 1,000 tons per day. The terminal can receive ocean-going vessels. Terra’s U.K. sales are divided about equally between agricultural and industrial customers. Terra engages merchants and buying groups to sell its Nitram brand bagged AN fertilizer directly to British farmers. Terra also bags AN for other U.K. suppliers and sells it in bulk to suppliers who blend it with potash and phosphates, bag it and distribute it to farmers. Terra exports a small quantity of AN to continental Europe. Terra’s U.K. industrial products include ammonia, nitric acid and liquid carbon dioxide. Most industrial sales are to customers where Terra has a freight advantage. Methanol Business Segment Terra’s methanol business segment has shrunk considerably since it mothballed its principal methanol production facility at Beaumont, Texas in December 2004. The facility remained closed throughout 2005 and remains closed to date. Terra’s remaining manufacturing facility capable of producing methanol is in Woodward, Oklahoma. 6 Table of Contents In December 2003, Terra entered into contracts with Methanex Corporation (“Methanex”) providing Methanex exclusive rights to all methanol production at Terra’s Beaumont, Texas facility for five years. Methanex paid $25 million for these rights and agreed to purchase Terra’s methanol production at amounts expected to approximate cash production costs. Methanex also agreed to pay Terra 50% of any gross profits earned from its sales of Beaumont product up to maximum payments of $12 million per year. The agreement also gave Methanex the right to terminate Beaumont’s production, with Terra being responsible for the costs of shutting down the facility. On December 1, 2004, at the request of Methanex and under the terms of the parties’ agreement, Terra ceased production at the Beaumont facility and mothballed the plant. The parties’ agreement stipulates that, beginning two years from the date of the shutdown, Terra may terminate the agreement by paying Methanex approximately $417,000 per month remaining in the agreement’s term. As long as the Beaumont facility remains idle through the December 2008 termination of the Methanex contract, Terra will continue to realize revenues relating to the facility of up to $16.4 million per year consisting of $4.4 million from annual amortization of deferred revenues plus one-half of the annual cash margin, if any, attributable to idled methanol production based on reference prices and natural gas costs. There was no 2005 cash margin. Terra has retained some employees to operate the Beaumont methanol storage and distribution terminal and potentially to operate the ammonia plant. Manufacturing Facilities Terra owns the plant and processing equipment at the Beaumont facility, which has an annual methanol production capacity of 225 million gallons. Terra did not produce any methanol at the Beaumont plant in 2005. For a description of the Beaumont facility, see the Beaumont, Texas description under 