ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that our management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of Terra’s operating expense is related to the cost of natural gas, and an increase in such cost that is either unexpected or not accompanied by increases in selling prices of products could result in reduced profit margins and lower product production. The principal raw material used to produce nitrogen products is natural gas. Natural gas costs in 2009 comprised approximately 43 percent of total costs and expenses. A significant increase in the price of natural gas (which can be driven by, among other things, supply disruptions, governmental or regulatory actions, cold weather and oil price spikes) that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of related nitrogen products could result in reduced profit margins and lower product production. We have previously idled one or more of our plants in response to high natural gas prices and may do so again in the future. A significant portion of our competitors’ global nitrogen production occurs at facilities with access to fixed-priced and/or product related natural gas supplies, similar to our gas supply contract in Trinidad. The natural gas costs for these competitors’ global nitrogen facilities have been and likely will continue to be substantially lower than our North American and U.K. gas costs. Declines in the prices of our products may reduce profit margins. Prices for nitrogen products are influenced by the global supply and demand conditions for ammonia and other nitrogen-based products. Long-term demand is affected by population growth and rising living standards that determine food consumption. Short-term demand is affected by world economic conditions and international trade decisions. Supply is affected by increasing worldwide capacity and the increasing availability of nitrogen product exports from major producing regions such as Russia, Canada, the Middle East, Trinidad and Venezuela. New global ammonia capacity is expected abroad in the foreseeable future. If this anticipated growth in new capacity exceeds the growth in demand, the price at which we sell our nitrogen products may decline, resulting in reduced profit margins, lower production of products and potential plant closures. Supply in the U.S. and Europe is also affected by trade regulatory measures, which restrict import supply into those regions. Changes in those measures would likely adversely impact available supply and pricing. Our products are subject to price volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Historically, the prices for our products have reflected frequent changes in supply and demand conditions. Changes in supply result from capacity additions or reductions and from changes in inventory levels. Demand for products is dependent on demand for crop nutrients by the global agricultural industry and on the level of industrial production. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production until supply exceeds demand, followed by periods of declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle is repeated. In addition, demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions. As a result of periodic imbalances of supply and demand, product prices have been volatile, with frequent and significant price changes. During periods of oversupply, the price at which we sell our products may be depressed and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are global commodities and we face intense competition from other producers. Our products are global commodities and can be subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Customers, including end-users, dealers and other crop-nutrient producers and distributors, base their purchasing decisions principally on the delivered price and availability of the product. We compete with a number of U.S. producers and producers in other countries, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. The U.S. and the European Commission each have implemented trade regulatory measures, changes in which could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability of the particular products involved. Some of our principal competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from nitrogen fertilizer sales. In addition, a portion of 16 Table of Contents global production benefits from natural gas contracts that have been, and could continue to be, substantially lower priced than our natural gas. Our inability to compete successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect sales and profitability. Our business is subject to risks related to weather conditions. Adverse weather conditions may have a significant effect on demand for our nitrogen products. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing season may cause agricultural customers to use less or different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the product that we sell. Weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to pay our customers. Weather and/or weather forecasts can dramatically affect the price of natural gas, our main raw material. Colder than normal winters as well as warmer than normal summers increase the natural gas demand for residential use. Also, hurricanes affecting the gulf coastal states can severely impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise sharply. Our risk measurement and hedging activities might not prevent losses. We manage commodity price risk for our businesses as a whole. Although we implemented risk measurement systems that use various methodologies to quantify the risk, these systems might not always be followed or might not always work as planned. Further, such risk measurement systems do not in themselves manage risk, and adverse changes involving volatility, adverse correlation of commodity prices and the liquidity of markets might still adversely affect earnings and cash flows, as well as the balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks have been identified. The ability to manage exposure to commodity price risk in the purchase of natural gas through the use of financial derivatives may be affected by limitations imposed by the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness. In an effort to manage financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our business, its assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract or industry. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. We may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows could be impacted by counterparty default. As part of our policies and procedures with respect to swap counterparties, we perform credit analysis and maintain an approved counterparty listing with established individual counterparty credit exposure limits. Counterparty credit exposure limits did not exceed $20 million for any individual counterparty during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. We are substantially dependent on our manufacturing facilities, and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Our manufacturing operations may be interrupted if one or more of our facilities were to experience a major accident, equipment failure or damage by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards, such as fires, accidental releases or explosions, inherent in chemical manufacturing. These events may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental contamination, and, in some cases, could result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. For example, an explosion at our Port Neal, Iowa facility in 1994 required us to rebuild nearly the entire facility, and a June 1, 2006 explosion shut down the ammonia production plant in Billingham, England until repairs were completed in August 2006. In addition, approximately four weeks of unplanned outages at our Point Lisas Nitrogen facility during the 2006 third quarter to repair failing heat exchangers were only partly successful and the plant operated at about 80 percent of capacity until replacement exchangers were installed during a scheduled turnaround in early 2007. Also, a mechanical outage at the Courtright, Ontario facility in April 2001 required us to shut down that facility for approximately two months. We currently maintain property insurance, including business 17 Table of Contents interruption insurance, but we may not have sufficient coverage to cover all our losses, or may be unable in the future to obtain sufficient coverage at reasonable costs. We may incur costs or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations to which we are subject. Our operations and properties are subject to various foreign, federal, state, provincial and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, including laws relating to air emissions, the use and disposal of hazardous and solid materials and wastes, water quality, investigation and remediation of contamination, transportation and worker health and safety. We could incur substantial costs, including capital expenditures for equipment upgrades, civil and criminal fines and penalties and third-party claims for damages, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. In connection with the manufacturing, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous or toxic by foreign, federal, state, provincial or local agencies, Terra may be responsible under CERCLA or analogous state laws if such materials have been or are disposed of or released at sites that require investigation and/or remediation, including for damages to natural resources. Under some of these laws, responsible parties may be held jointly and severally liable for such costs, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal or release. We have liability as a “potentially responsible party” at certain sites under certain environmental remediation laws, and have also been subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and possible personal injury arising from contamination relating to active as well as discontinued operations. We may be subject to additional liability or additional claims in the future. Some of these matters may require significant expenditures for investigation and/or cleanup or other costs. From time to time, our production of anhydrous ammonia has resulted in accidental releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in liability for administrative penalties and claims for personal injury. Although, to date, our costs to resolve these liabilities have not been material, we could incur significant costs if our liability coverage is not sufficient to pay for all or a large part of any judgments against us, or if our carrier refuses coverage for these losses. We may be required to install additional pollution control equipment at certain facilities in order to maintain compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues, including proposals to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations. We may be required to install additional air and water quality control equipment, such as low nitrous oxide burners, scrubbers, ammonia sensors and continuous emission monitors, at certain of our facilities in order to comply with applicable environmental requirements. Such investments would reduce income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of previously unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures in excess of our estimates and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or net cash flows. Government regulation and agricultural policy may reduce the demand for our products. Existing and future government regulations and laws may reduce the demand for our products. Existing and future agricultural and/or environmental laws and regulations may impact the amounts and locations of fertilizer application and may lead to decreases in the quantity of nitrogen fertilizer applied to crops. Changes in U.S. energy policies may affect the demand for our nitrogen products. Any such decrease in the demand for fertilizer products could result in lower unit sales and lower selling prices for nitrogen fertilizer products. U.S. and E.U. governmental policies affecting the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted and crop prices could also affect the demand and selling prices of our products. In addition, we manufacture and sell AN in the U.S. and, in the U.K., through our GrowHow joint venture. AN can be used as an explosive and was used in the Oklahoma City bombing in April 1995. It is possible that either the U.S. or U.K. governments could impose limitations on the use, sale or distribution of AN, thereby limiting our ability to manufacture or sell this product. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with possible climate change legislation, regulation and international accords. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. Cap and trade initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced in the EU. Similarly, numerous bills related to climate change have been introduced in the US Congress, which could adversely impact all industries. In addition, future regulation of greenhouse gas could occur pursuant to future US treaty obligations, statutory or regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act or new climate change legislation. While not all are likely to become law, this is a strong indication that additional climate change related mandates may be forthcoming, and it is expected that they may adversely impact our costs by increasing energy costs and raw material prices and establishing costly emissions trading schemes and requiring modification of equipment. A step toward potential federal restriction on greenhouse gas emissions was taken on December 7, 2009 when the EPA issued its Endangerment Finding in response to a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The EPA found that the emission of six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (which is emitted from the combustion of fossil fuels), may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. Based on this finding, the EPA defined the mix of these six greenhouse gases to be “air pollution” subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. Although the EPA has stated a preference that greenhouse gas regulation be based on new federal legislation rather than the existing Clean Air Act, many sources of greenhouse gas emissions may be regulated without the need for further legislation. The US Congress is considering legislation that would create an economy-wide “cap-and-trade” system that would establish a limit (or cap) on overall greenhouse gas emissions and create a market for the purchase and sale of emissions permits or “allowances.” Under the leading cap-and-trade proposals before Congress, the fertilizer industry likely would be affected due to anticipated increases in the cost of natural gas fuel and feedstock, and the cost of emissions allowances, which the Company would be required to obtain. In addition, cap-and-trade proposals would likely increase the cost of electricity used by the Company. Other countries are also considering or have implemented “cap-and-trade” systems. Future environmental regulatory developments related to climate change are possible, which could materially increase operating costs in the fertilizer industry and thereby increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. Our international business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; currency fluctuations; tax rates that may exceed those in the U.S.; earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; and the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions. During 2009, we derived approximately 5 percent of our net sales from outside of the U.S. Terra’s business operations include a 50 percent interest in an ammonia production joint venture in the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and a 50 percent interest in a U.K. joint venture for the production of ammonia. Our business may be adversely impacted by our leverage, which may require the use of a substantial portion of excess cash flow to service debt and may limit our access to additional capital. Our debt could have important consequences on our business. For example, it could (i) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting flexibility in reacting to changes in our business or industry, (ii) reduce our cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less leverage and (iv) limit our ability to borrow additional funds and increase the cost of funds that we can borrow. We may not be able to reduce financial leverage when we choose to do so, and may not be able to raise capital to fund growth opportunities. We may be unable to refinance our debt upon a change of control. In the event that we experience a “change of control” (as defined in our bond indenture and the instruments governing our 4.25 percent Series A Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Shares (Series A Preferred Shares)), such as the Yara Merger, we may need to refinance large amounts of debt and the Series A Preferred Shares. If a change of 19 Table of Contents control occurs, we must offer to buy back the notes under our indenture governing the 7.75 percent senior notes due 2019 and the Series A Preferred Shares for a price equal to 101 percent of the notes’ principal amount or 100 percent of the liquidation value of the Series A Preferred Shares, as applicable, plus any interest or dividends which have accrued and remain unpaid as of the repurchase date. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient funds available for any repurchases that could be required by a change of control. Additionally, under our revolving credit facilities (facilities), a change of control will occur if, among other such things, an individual or group acquires beneficial ownership of more than 35 percent of the outstanding voting shares of Terra, which will be the case upon consummation of the Yara Merger. Such a change of control would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facilities. In addition, a change of control (as defined in the indenture) will also result in a change of control under the facilities. We may not be able to replace our current revolving credit facilities on terms equal to or more favorable than the current terms if the commitments are terminated and the loans are repaid under our existing credit facilities upon an event of default. If the global economic downturn continues or worsens, our business could be adversely impacted. In the latter part of 2008 and into 2009, the global economic downturn worsened and nitrogen markets continued to weaken. We have experienced declining demand and falling prices for some of our products due to the general economic slowdown and our customers’ reluctance to replenish inventories. In particular, industrial demand for ammonia has remained relatively weak as the economy has struggled to recover. At the same time, the economic downturn has also reduced demand and pricing for natural gas, the primary raw material used in the production of nitrogen products, which has helped to reduce our production costs. In light of these varied and sometimes offsetting effects, the overall impact of the global economic downturn is difficult to predict and our business could be adversely impacted. We are exposed to risks associated with our joint venture investments. We participate in several joint ventures with third parties. Our joint venture partners may have shared or majority control over the operations of our joint ventures. As a result, our investments in joint ventures involve risks that are different from the risks involved in owning facilities and operations independently. These risks include the possibility that our joint ventures or our partners: § have economic or business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; § are in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives; § subject the property to liabilities exceeding those contemplated; § take actions that reduce our return on investment; or § take actions that harm our reputation or restrict our ability to run our business. In addition, we may become involved in disputes with our joint venture partners, which could lead to impasses or situations that could harm the joint venture, which could reduce our revenues, increase our costs and lower our profits. Disruption in or increased costs of transportation services could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We depend on rail, barge, truck and pipeline transportation services to deliver nitrogen products to our customers, and transportation costs are a significant component of the total cost of supplying nitrogen products. Disruptions of these transportation services could temporarily impair our ability to supply nitrogen products to our customers. In addition, increases in our transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We and Yara may not satisfy certain closing conditions necessary to consummate the Yara Merger. On February 12, 2010, Terra entered into the Yara Merger Agreement with Yara and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Yara. The consummation of the Yara Merger is subject to Terra obtaining the Terra Stockholder Approval 20 Table of Contents and Yara obtaining the Yara Stockholder Approval. The Yara Merger is also subject to receipt of regulatory approvals (or the expiration of applicable waiting periods) in the United States, Canada and the European Union, the absence of legal restraints preventing consummation of the Yara Merger, the absence of pending lawsuits by any governmental entity seeking to prevent consummation of the Yara Merger that would reasonably be expected to result in certain material adverse effects on Terra and the absence since January 1, 2009 of any change or event that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in or would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect on Terra. We cannot predict whether or not these conditions, or any of the other conditions set forth in the Yara Merger Agreement, will be satisfied. To the extent either we or Yara are unable to satisfy the closing conditions, the Yara Merger may not be consummated. If the Yara Merger is not consummated, we will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. If the Yara Merger is not consummated, the price of our common stock may decline. In addition, we have incurred and will incur substantial transaction costs and expenses in connection with the Yara Merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of our financial advisors and attorneys. In addition, management resources may be diverted in an effort to consummate the Yara Merger and we are subject to certain restrictions contained in the Yara Merger Agreement on the conduct of our business. If the Yara Merger is not consummated, we will have incurred significant costs for which we will have received little or no benefit. Also, if the Yara Merger Agreement is terminated for certain reasons, including, among others, by us to accept a superior proposal or by Yara upon a change in the recommendation of our board of directors, we may be obligated to pay Yara a cash termination fee of $123 million. In addition, if the Yara Merger is not consummated, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our stockholders, potential investors, customers and employees. Each of these factors may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pending Yara Merger may create uncertainty for our customers and employees. While the Yara Merger is pending, customers may delay or defer decisions to purchase our products and existing customers may experience uncertainty about our products. This may adversely affect our ability to gain new customers and retain existing customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-Yara Merger roles with Yara, and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Terra following the Yara Merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 