ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our disclosure and analysis in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements discuss our strategy, expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, development of products, strategic alliances, intellectual property, competitive position, plans and objectives of management. We often use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In particular, the statements regarding our new strategic direction and its potential effects on our business and the statements regarding the divestiture of our global biologics manufacturing business are forward-looking statements. Additionally, forward-looking statements include those relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance, financing needs, liquidity or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to our Restatement The restatement of our consolidated financial statements had, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on us, including increased costs, the possibility of legal or administrative proceedings and delisting warnings from The NASDAQ National Market. In 2005 we determined that our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003, and 2004 and for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 should be restated. We incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in 2005 in connection with the restatement, and although the restatement is complete, we may incur additional related costs. 12 Back to Contents For example, the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC has provided comments to us relating to certain of our accounting practices. We believe that we have responded to all of these questions in full; however, it is possible that the Division of Corporation Finance will have further comments. Any further comment letters from the Division of Corporation Finance would likely divert more of our management’s time and attention and cause us to incur additional costs. Similarly, in the event litigation is pursued or other relief is sought by persons asserting claims for damages allegedly resulting from or based on this restatement, or events related thereto, we may incur additional defense costs beyond our insurance coverage regardless of their outcome. Likewise, such events might cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, some of which have not been fully remediated. In addition, we may experience additional material weaknesses in the future. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or our failure to remediate such material weaknesses could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, as well as our stock price. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting relating to insufficient personnel resources, deficiencies in income tax analysis, insufficient communications, insufficient treasury controls, and insufficient controls related to stock based compensation. Some of these material weaknesses have not been fully remediated. These material weaknesses and our remediation plans are described further in Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements not being prevented or detected. We may experience difficulties or delays in completing remediation or may not be able to successfully remediate material weaknesses at all. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could harm investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to raise additional funds. Risks Relating to Our New Strategic Direction We are repositioning our company to focus on product development, including an enhanced focus on the clinical development of Puricase (PEG-uricase), our lead product candidate currently entering Phase 3 clinical trials. If we are unable to commercialize this product candidate or any other product candidate that we may pursue in the future, or if we experience significant delays or unanticipated costs in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. As part of our strategic business plan, we are repositioning our company to focus on the full development of our pipeline products. This will include an enhanced focus on the clinical development of Puricase (PEG-uricase), our lead product candidate currently entering Phase 3 clinical trials and for which we recently reached an agreement with the FDA on the protocols for such trials through a Special Protocol Assessment. We also plan to engage in an active in-licensing program to access and develop novel compounds in clinical stage as well as marketed products complementary to this strategy. Our ability to commercialize Puricase (PEG-uricase) or any other product candidate that we may develop in the future will depend on several factors, including: • successfully completing clinical trials; • successfully manufacturing fully comparable clinical and commercial drug supply; • receiving marking approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; • establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements with third party manufacturers, to the extent we do not manufacture the product candidates ourselves; • launching commercial sales of the product, whether alone or in collaboration with others; and • acceptance of the product in the medical community and with third party payors. 13 Back to Contents If we are unable to successfully commercialize Puricase (PEG-uricase), or if we experience significant delays or unanticipated costs in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We will face similar drug development risks for any other product candidates that we may develop in the future. Puricase (PEG-uricase), and any other product candidate that we may develop in the future, must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy clinical trials and extensive manufacturing quality assessments to obtain regulatory approval. We must successfully complete clinical trials for Puricase (PEG-uricase) before we can apply for its marketing approval. In December 2004 we administered the last patient dose in a Phase 2 clinical trial of Puricase (PEG-uricase) and we completed the full analysis of the results of this study in April 2005. In May 2005 we reported positive top-line Phase 2 clinical trial results for Puricase (PEG-uricase). The results from the Phase 2 clinical trial showed that Puricase (PEG-uricase) showed effectiveness in reducing uric acid levels. Based on the results of our end of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA and post-meeting interactions, in December 2005 we submitted a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) of the Company’s Phase 3 protocols. In March 2006 the Company received a written response from the FDA reflecting the agency’s agreement with the Phase 3 protocols. The Company plans to implement the protocols in support of a marketing application for the orphan drug indication of the control of hyperuricemia in patients with symptomatic gout in whom conventional thereapy is contraindicated or has been ineffective. We expect patient dosing to begin in May 2006, subject to no objections from the FDA and Institutional Review Boards in the US and/or Ethics Committees outside the US. Our Phase 3 trial may be unsuccessful which would materially harm our business. Even if this trial is successful, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials or additional manufacturing quality assessments before an NDA (or BLA) can be filed with the FDA for marketing approval or as a condition of approval. Clinical testing is expensive, is difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in early phases of clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize Puricase (PEG-uricase), including: • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising; • enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. 14 Back to Contents If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; • not be able to obtain marketing approval; • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended; or • not obtain marketing approval before other companies are able to bring competitive products to market. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether our ongoing clinical trials will be completed on schedule. Similarly, we do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant delays in clinical trials could also allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. Our new strategic focus includes a licensing program to partner our Puricase (PEG-uricase) product outside the United States and to in-license other novel compounds to build our development portfolio. We may not be successful in our licensing efforts and in expanding our portfolio of products in this manner. As part of the change in our strategic business plan, we announced that we intend to seek a development and commercialization partner for Puricase (PEG-uricase) outside the United States and to also concentrate on an active in-licensing program to access and develop novel compounds in clinical stage. To date, we have had limited success in identifying a suitable partner outside the United States and in identifying and in-licensing the appropriate compounds, and we may continue to have difficulty in this area for a number of reasons. In particular, the licensing, partnering and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is a competitive area. Numerous companies are also pursuing strategies to license, partner or acquire products similar to those that we may pursue. These companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from partnering, licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable product candidates include the following: • we may be unable to identify a partner outside the United States that possesses the expertise or size necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of Puricase (PEG-uricase); • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within our areas of expertise; • we may be unable to license or acquire the relevant technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on our investment in the product; or • companies that perceive us to be their competitors may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates by obtaining rights to novel compounds from third parties, our business could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We incurred an operating loss in 2005 and anticipate that we may incur net losses for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to commercialize Puricase (PEG-uricase) or any other product candidates, we may never return to profitability. We incurred an operating loss of $5,703,000 in 2005 primarily related to a decrease in revenues. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Our financial results have been substantially dependent on Oxandrin sales. Sales of Oxandrin accounted for 52% of our net product sales in 2005 and 57% in 2004. However, although we cannot predict when generic competition for Oxandrin will begin, the FDA may approve one or more generic versions of Oxandrin at any time. If the FDA approves a generic version of Oxandrin, our revenues will decline significantly, and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. 15 Back to Contents Our return to profitability is dependent on the successful commercialization of Puricase (PEG-uricase) and any other product candidates that we may develop, license or acquire. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Puricase (PEG-uricase) or any other product candidates, or if we experience significant delays or unanticipated costs in doing so, or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we may never return to profitability. Even if we do become profitable again, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We will need substantial capital to develop and commercialize products, and we may be unable to obtain additional capital. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products requires substantial funds. In addition, we may require cash to acquire new product candidates. In recent periods, we have satisfied our cash requirements primarily through product sales. Historically, we have also obtained capital through collaborations with third parties, contract fees, government funding and equity and debt financings. These financing alternatives might not be available in the future to satisfy our cash requirements. We might not be able to obtain additional funds or, if such funds are available, such funding might be on unacceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our then existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or borrowings, we may incur substantial interest expense and could become subject to financial and other covenants that could restrict our ability to take specified actions, such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our commercialization efforts or development programs or obtain funds through sales of assets or arrangements with collaborative partners or others on less favorable terms than might otherwise be available. A significant portion of our revenues is attributable to sales of Oxandrin. Sales of Oxandrin declined during 2005 as compared to 2004 and 2003. Oxandrin may begin facing generic competition at any time, which would likely cause a significant further decrease in Oxandrin sales and render our existing Oxandrin inventory obsolete. Net sales of Oxandrin amounted to $44,405,000 in 2005 and $53,520,000 in 2004, representing approximately 52% and 57% of our net product sales, respectively. We believe several companies have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, with the FDA relating to a generic drug with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Oxandrin. Although we cannot predict when generic competition for Oxandrin will begin, the FDA may approve one or more generic versions of Oxandrin at any time. The introduction of these generic products would likely cause a significant decrease in our Oxandrin revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As a result, we anticipate that Oxandrin will be a less significant product for our future operating results. Our inventories include Oxandrin inventories that we believe would potentially be in excess of expected product demand if the FDA approves a generic form of the product in the near term. The amount of such potential excess will vary depending upon the timing of the approval of a generic product, the number of generic products that are approved and the rate by which generic sales reduce demand for branded Oxandrin. Oxandrin sales in particular reporting periods may be affected by wholesalers’ buying patterns and product returns. A significant portion of our sales of Oxandrin in the United States are to major drug wholesalers. These sales are affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of these wholesalers and the corresponding changes in inventory levels that they maintain. These changes may not reflect underlying prescriber demand and can be influenced by price concessions or announcements of price increases in future periods. We believe that Oxandrin sales in the second quarter of 2004 were negatively affected by reduced purchases by wholesalers as they reduced their inventory levels. Our Oxandrin sales in future periods may be further reduced if wholesalers continue to reduce inventories. This may be more likely if and when a generic version of Oxandrin is introduced. 16 Back to Contents The Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories, or Ross, marketed Oxandrin under a co-promotion agreement with us for the treatment of weight loss by residents of long-term care facilities. We have terminated the co-promotion agreement effective as of December 31, 2005. To date, the average prescription written for the elderly in the long-term care market involves a lower dose of Oxandrin than the average prescription written for the HIV market. As a result, the rate of growth in Oxandrin sales may be less than the rate of growth in prescriptions. With our termination of the Ross co-promotion agreement we plan to direct a portion of our sales and marketing efforts to the long-term care market. However, if we are unsuccessful in these efforts, our sales of Oxandrin would be negatively affected. Our results of operations have been adversely affected by returns of Oxandrin. Future returns of Oxandrin or other products could also affect our results of operations. In 2004 we experienced returns of expiring Oxandrin for the first time which led to a review and investigation of the Company’s revenue recognition, historical practices and a financial statement restatement. Accordingly, our revenues were increased by $10,866,000 and reduced by $3,342,000 and $1,364,000 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 respectively. As of December 31, 2005, $2,888,000 represents our allowance for future product returns. Future product returns in excess of our reserves would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market. Our competitors may develop alternative technologies or safer or more effective products before we are able to do so. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. The technological areas in which we work continue to evolve at a rapid pace. Our future success will depend upon our ability to compete in the research, development and commercialization of products and technologies in our areas of focus. Competition from pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions is intense and we expect it to increase. Many of these competitors are substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater capital resources, research and development capabilities and experience and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. Acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical companies or other companies could enhance the financial, marketing and other resources available to these competitors. Rapid technological development may result in our product candidates in development becoming obsolete before we can begin marketing these product candidates or before we are able to recover a significant portion of the research, development and commercialization expenses incurred in the development of those products. For example, since our launch of Oxandrin in December 1995 through December 2000, a significant portion of Oxandrin sales has been for treatment of patients suffering from HIV-related weight loss. These patients’ needs for Oxandrin may decrease as a result of the development of safer or more effective treatments, such as protease inhibitors. In fact, since January 2001, growth in the AIDS-related weight loss market has slowed substantially. Our products must compete with others to gain market acceptance and market share. An important factor will be the timing of market introduction of competitive products. The most recent competitor to enter this market was Par’s introduction of megace ES in June 2005. They are primarily displacing generic megace which represents 75% of our market, but also has an impact on Oxandrin. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we and competing companies can develop products, complete the clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market will be an important element of market success. Our competitors may develop safer, more effective or more affordable products or achieve earlier product development completion, patent protection, regulatory approval or product commercialization than we do. Our competitors’ achievement of any of these goals could have a material adverse effect on our business. These companies also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and to attract third parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. 17 Back to Contents Manufacturing our products and those of Rosemont’s requires us and Rosemont to meet stringent quality control standards. In addition, we depend on third parties to manufacture our products and plan to rely on third parties to manufacture any future products. If we or these third parties fail to meet applicable quality requirements, our revenues and product development efforts may be materially adversely affected. The manufacture of our products involves a number of technical steps and requires us, Rosemont, or our third party suppliers and manufacturers to meet stringent quality control specifications imposed by us or by governmental regulatory bodies. In the event of a natural disaster, equipment failure, strike, war or other difficulty, we or our suppliers may be unable to manufacture our products in a manner necessary to fulfill demand. The inability of us or Rosemont to fulfill market demand, the inability of Rosemont to fulfill the demand requirements of its U.S. distribution partner, Cytogen, for Soltomax, or the inability of our third party manufacturers to meet our demands will have a direct and adverse impact on our sales and may also permit our licensees and distributors to terminate their agreements. Further, we depend on third parties for the supply of our products. Failure of any third party to meet applicable regulatory requirements may adversely affect our profit margins or result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. Should Rosemont fail to continue to meet applicable regulatory requirements for its products within its market or for supply to the United States such failure may adversely affect Rosemont’s sales and profit margins or result in product back-orders or withdrawal or suspension of the marketing authorization for its products in the relevant jurisdiction. Risks involved with engaging third party suppliers include: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party or the inability of the third party to meet our production schedules because of factors beyond our control, such as shortages in qualified personnel; and • the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Additionally, we rely on a single source supplier for the manufacture of our product candidate Puricase (PEG-uricase) and have a single source supplier of an active ingredient contained in such product with which we currently have no long term supply agreement. We have entered into an arrangement with our former global biologics manufacturing business, BTG-Israel in Israel to serve as the initial primary manufacturer of our product candidate, Puricase (PEG-uricase). The ability of BTG-Israel to consistently perform these activities may be affected by economic, military and political conditions in Israel and in the Middle East in general. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. These hostilities have, at times, caused security and economic problems in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel could adversely affect BTG-Israel’s ability to supply adequate quantities of the product under our Agreement and in turn affect our ability to complete the clinical development of Puricase (PEG-uricase). While we are in the process of identifying alternate sources of supply of Puricase (PEG-uricase) and concluding a long term supply agreement with the supplier of the key active ingredients for the product, the completion of the process conclude such agreement and to successfully identify and reach agreement with such alternate source and the time to conduct a technology transfer to enable the alternate source to scale up and validate it manufacturing processes for Puricase (PEG-uricase) will be lengthy. While this is one of the high priority matters for us, if we experience an interruption in the supply of Puricase (PEG-uricase) from BTG-Israel or the active ingredients from other third party suppliers before we have succeeded in concluding long term supply arrangements and entering into and validating an alternate supply arrangement for Puricase (PEG-uricase) it may affect our financial results, possibly materially. 18 Back to Contents The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products are subject to the requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies. If we or our third party suppliers fail to satisfy these requirements, our business operations may be materially harmed. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated. Manufacturing activities must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s Current Good Manufacturing Practices, and comparable requirements of foreign regulatory bodies. For example, Rosemont recently completed upgrading its manufacturing facility to obtain FDA approval to sell Soltamox, the first oral liquid formulation of tamoxifen, in the United States. Failure by us or our third party suppliers to comply with applicable regulations, requirements, or guidelines could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Other than by contract, we do not have control over the compliance by our third party suppliers with these regulations and standards. Changes in manufacturing processes or procedures, including changes in the location where a product is manufactured or changes in a third party supplier may require prior FDA or other governmental review or approval or revalidation of the manufacturing process. This is particularly an issue with biologic products, such as our product candidate Puricase (PEG-uricase). This review or revalidation may be costly and time-consuming. Because there are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under applicable regulatory requirements, it may be difficult for us to change a third party supplier if we are otherwise required to do so. Similarly, because of the applicable requirements, we may not be able to quickly and efficiently replace our manufacturing capacity if we are unable to manufacture our products at our facilities. We may not be successful in establishing additional strategic alliances, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products and services. Part of our strategic plan to focus on product development involves entering into new strategic alliances for the development and commercialization of products and services when we believe that doing so will maximize product value. For example, we plan to seek development and commercial partners to commercialize Puricase (PEG-uricase) outside the United States. If we are unsuccessful in reaching an agreement with a suitable collaborator for our current or future product candidates, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the applicable product or program. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, these alliance arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any additional strategic alliances or other arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Moreover, such strategic alliances or other arrangements may not be successful. The risks that we are likely to face in connection with any future strategic alliances include the following: • strategic alliance agreements are typically for fixed terms and are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, in many cases without cause; • our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts; • we may rely on our collaborators to manufacture the products covered by our alliances; • the areas of research, development and commercialization that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties, may be limited as a result of non-competition provisions of our strategic alliance agreements; 19 Back to Contents • our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products and services that are the subject of the alliance with us; and • failure to establish steady supply of essential raw materials from vendors. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors and a reduction in the payment or reimbursement rate could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Most patients rely on Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third party payors to pay for their medical needs, including any drugs we or our collaborators may market. If third party payors do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. The US Congress enacted a limited prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients in the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 which was expanded by the Medicare Part D prescription plan that went into effect January 1, 2006. While the program established by this statute may increase demand for our products, our prices will be negotiated with drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries and are likely to be lower than we might otherwise obtain if we participate in this program. Non-Medicare third party drug procurement organizations may also base the price they are willing to pay on the rate paid by drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries. A primary trend in the US healthcare industry is toward cost containment. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in commercialization of our products. Third party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products. In particular, third party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products we may develop. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. Some states including New York, California, and Florida have eliminated or limited reimbursement of prescription drugs for HIV and AIDS, including Oxandrin, under their AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAP), which has adversely affected and is expected to continue to adversely affect sales of Oxandrin in those states. Efforts and discussions are ongoing with these state agencies to reverse these changes, but to date we have not been successful and we cannot predict whether we will be successful in the future. If we are not successful, our Oxandrin sales in this HIV/AIDS related involuntary weight loss market will continue to be adversely impacted. Some other states may shift patient coverage from ADAP and other state prescription programs to the new Medicare Part D prescription plan creating additional market disruption. We have recently made significant changes in our senior management team. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We have recently made significant changes in our senior management team. In July 2004, Christopher Clement, who had been our President and Chief Operating Officer, became our President and Chief Executive Officer. In May 2004, Philip K. Yachmetz, currently our Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer, joined us as Senior Vice President-Corporate Strategy and General Counsel and in March 2005, David Fink joined us as Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations. More recently, in October 2005, Gina Gutzeit joined us as interim Chief Financial Officer. We are currently searching for a permanent Chief Financial Officer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel and to establish and maintain continuity and stability within our management team. There is a great deal of competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for the limited number of pharmaceutical development professionals with expertise in the areas of our activities. If 20 Back to Contents we cannot continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business and products, we may not be able to sustain our operations and execute our business plan. We generally do not enter into employment agreements with any of our product development personnel. In addition, we do not maintain, and have no current intention of obtaining, “key man” life insurance on any of our employees. Economic, political, pricing regulation in foreign jurisdictions and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales. We significantly expanded our international operations with our 2002 acquisition of Rosemont. Our product sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 48% of our total product sales in both 2005 and 2004. The UK government in 2004 reviewed the overall pricing structure for banded prescription medicines and reduced the prices for branded prescription medicines by 7% effective as of January 1, 2005. While this was the first reduction in such pricing since 1999, there can be no assurances as to the frequency with which such pricing reviews may be conducted. Because we and Rosemont sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • mandated price reductions for some or all of the products sold within a foreign jurisdiction; • changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions affecting terms of payment; • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • less familiarity with business customs and practices; • the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls; • the impact of possible recessionary environments in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • differing labor laws and changes in those laws; • differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection; • differing tax laws and changes in those laws; and • differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. We do not currently engage in currency hedging transactions. However, depending on our sales from international operations and our perception as to currency volatility, we may choose to limit our exposure by the purchase of forward foreign exchange contracts or similar hedging strategies. The currency exchange strategy that we adopt may not be successful in avoiding exchange-related losses. In addition, the above-listed factors may cause a decline in our future international revenue and, consequently, may harm our business. We may not be able to sustain or increase revenue that we derive from international sources. We may incur substantial costs related to product liability. The testing and marketing of our products entail an inherent risk of product liability and associated adverse publicity. Pharmaceutical product liability exposure could be extremely large and poses a material risk. To the extent we elect to test or market products independently, we bear the risk of product liability directly. We currently have $20 million of product liability insurance coverage in place. We might not be able to maintain existing insurance or obtain additional insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. It is possible that a single product liability claim could exceed our insurance coverage limits, and multiple claims are possible. Any successful product liability claim made against us could substantially reduce or eliminate any 21 Back to Contents stockholders’ equity we may have and could materially harm our financial results. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. The ultimate outcome of pending securities litigation is uncertain. After the restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001 and the first two quarters of 2002, we and some of our former officers were named in a series of similar purported securities class action lawsuits. The complaints in these actions, which have been consolidated into one action, allege violations of US securities law through alleged material misrepresentations and omissions and seek an unspecified award of damages. In addition, members of our board of directors prior to June 2003 Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, our former corporate counsel, and Arthur Andersen LLP, our prior auditor, were named in derivative actions that claimed, among other things, that our directors breached their fiduciary duties by failing to implement and maintain an adequate internal accounting control system. Although these derivative suits were dismissed, we received a letter on behalf of a purported stockholder demanding that we commence an action against most of our directors, certain former directors, Arthur Andersen LLP and others who were responsible for the actions that resulted in the restatement of our financial statements. A special committee of our board of directors, consisting of directors who were not directors prior to our 2003 annual meeting, investigated this demand and determined that litigation relating to this matter should not proceed. In August 2005, citing the failure of the plaintiff’s amended complaint to set forth particularized facts that give rise to a strong inference that the defendants acted with the required state of mind, the district court granted our motion to dismiss the action, without prejudice, and granted plaintiffs leave to file an amended complaint. In October 2005 the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, again seeking unspecified compensatory damages, purporting to set forth particularized facts to support their allegations of violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act by us and our former officers. In December 2005 we filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. We intend to contest the pending securities action against us vigorously. However, an adverse decision in this case could adversely affect us financially. We have referred these claims to our directors and officers insurance carrier, which has reserved its rights as to coverage with respect to this action. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. 22 Back to Contents If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We seek to protect this information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If our confidential information or trade secrets become publicly known, they may lose their value to us. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business. Our development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the US Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office or in another patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could adversely affect our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. In the future we may be involved in costly legal proceedings to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation is inherently uncertain and an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights. Legal proceedings that we initiate to protect our intellectual property rights could also result in counterclaims or countersuits against us. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert our management’s time and attention. Any intellectual property litigation also could force us to take specific actions, including: • cease selling products or undertaking processes that are claimed to be infringing a third party’s intellectual property; • obtain licenses to make, use, sell, offer for sale or import the relevant technologies from the intellectual property’s owner, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; 23 Back to Contents • redesign those products or processes that are claimed to be infringing a third party’s intellectual property; or • pursue legal remedies with third parties to enforce our indemnification rights, which may not adequately protect our interests. We have been involved in several lawsuits and disputes regarding intellectual property in the past. We could be involved in similar disputes or litigation with other third parties in the future. An adverse decision in any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory Risks We are subject to stringent governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal and state governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA, as well as by foreign countries where we manufacture or distribute our products. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of pharmaceutical products for human use. All of our products, manufacturing processes and facilities require governmental licensing or approval prior to commercial use and maintenance of those approvals during commercialization. A pharmaceutical product cannot be marketed in the United States until it has been approved by the FDA, and then can only be marketed for the indications and claims approved by the FDA. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of an NDA or a BLA are substantial. The approval process applicable to products of the type being developed by us usually takes five to seven years from the commencement of human clinical trials and typically requires substantial expenditures. We and our collaborators may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our or their respective efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our products, we are required to conduct pre-clinical and clinical trials to demonstrate that the product is safe and efficacious for the treatment of the target indication. The timing of completion of clinical trials depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, we and our collaborators may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in the policies of regulatory authorities. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, and mandate product withdrawals. Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the timing of the commercialization of our products and our ongoing research and development activities. The timing of regulatory approvals is not within our control. Failure to obtain and maintain requisite governmental approvals, or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested, could delay or preclude us or our collaborators from marketing our products, could limit the commercial use of the products and could also allow competitors time to introduce competing products ahead of product introductions by us. Even after regulatory approval is obtained, use of the products could reveal side effects that, if serious, could result in suspension of existing approvals and delays in obtaining approvals in other jurisdictions. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in significant fines or other sanctions, termination of clinical trials, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, imposition of operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on current best practices, we or our employees might not be, or might fail to be, in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. Further, FDA policy or similar policies of regulatory agencies in other countries may change and additional governmental requirements may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We cannot predict what effect changes in regulations, enforcement positions, statutes or legal interpretation, when and if promulgated, adopted or enacted, may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, require changes to manufacturing methods or facilities, expanded or different 24 Back to Contents labeling, new approvals, the recall, replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and expanded scientific substantiation. These changes, or new legislation, could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price is volatile. Since June 1, 2001, our common stock traded as high as $13.57 per share and as low as $1.77 per share. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our ability to successfully implement our new strategic direction; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of results in pre-clinical testing and clinical trials; • regulatory developments; • patent or proprietary rights developments; • public concern as to the safety or other implications of biotechnology products; • changes in our earnings estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. The volatility of our common stock imposes a greater risk of capital losses on our stockholders than a less volatile stock would. In addition, volatility makes it difficult to ascribe a stable valuation to a stockholder’s holdings of our common stock. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have also experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of the securities of biopharmaceutical companies, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation would result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We expect our quarterly results to fluctuate, which may cause volatility in our stock price. Our revenues and expenses have in the past and may in the future continue to display significant variations. These variations may result from a variety of factors, including: • the amount and timing of product sales; • changing demand for our products; • our inability to provide adequate supply for our products; • changes in wholesaler buying patterns; • returns of expired product; • changes in government or private payor reimbursement policies for our products; • increased competition from new or existing products, including generic products; • the timing of the introduction of new products; • the timing and realization of milestone and other payments from licensees; • the timing and amount of expenses relating to research and development, product development and manufacturing activities; • the extent and timing of costs of obtaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property rights; and 25 Back to Contents • any charges related to acquisitions. Because many of our expenses are fixed, particularly in the short-term, any decrease in revenues will adversely affect our earnings until revenues can be increased or expenses reduced. We also expect our revenues and earnings to be adversely affected if a generic version of Oxandrin is introduced. Because of fluctuations in revenues and expenses, it is possible that our operating results for a particular quarter or quarters will not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance and stockholders should not rely on those comparisons to predict our future operating or share price performance. Effecting a change of control of our company could be difficult, which may discourage offers for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may delay or prevent an attempt by a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions include the requirements of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits designated types of business combinations, including mergers, for a period of three years between us and any third party that owns 15% or more of our common stock. This provision does not apply if: • our board of directors approves of the transaction before the third party acquires 15% of our stock; • the third party acquires at least 85% of our stock at the time its ownership goes past the 15% level; or • our board of directors and two-thirds of the shares of our common stock not held by the third party vote in favor of the transaction. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan intended to deter hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, if any person or group acquires more than 20% of our common stock without approval of our board of directors under specified circumstances, our other stockholders have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. As a result, the plan makes an acquisition much more costly to a potential acquirer. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue up to 4 million shares of preferred stock in one or more different series with terms fixed by our board of directors. Stockholder approval is not necessary to issue preferred stock in this manner. Issuance of these shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to acquire control of us. No shares of our preferred stock are currently outstanding. While our board of directors has no current intention or plan to issue any preferred stock, issuance of these shares could also be used as an anti-takeover device. 