ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements discuss our strategy, expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, development of products, strategic alliances, intellectual property, competitive position, plans and objectives of management. We often use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In particular, the statements regarding our new strategic direction and its potential effects on our business and the development of our lead drug candidate pegloticase, are forward-looking statements. Additionally, forward-looking statements include those relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance, financing needs, liquidity or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The following risk factors restate and supersede the risk factors previously disclosed in Item 1A. of our Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and our Quarterly Reports on Form-10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007. Risks Relating to Our Business Our company focuses primarily on the development of a single product, pegloticase. If we are unable to complete the development of and commercialize Puricase, which we refer to as pegloticase, or if we experience significant delays or unanticipated costs in doing so, our ability to generate product revenue and our likelihood of success will be materially harmed. Much of our near term results depend on the commercial launch of pegloticase and its further clinical development for expanded uses. While we announced positive top-line Phase 3 clinical trial results in December 2007, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will approve our BLA, or if it will issue a conditional approval. Failure to receive FDA approval, or the cost and delay associated with a conditional approval, will harm our ability to generate product revenue and our business, possibly materially. In addition, our ability to commercialize pegloticase will depend on several factors, including: • successfully completing the analysis of our Phase 3 clinical trial results, • successfully manufacturing drug supplies, • receiving marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities, • maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers, • launching commercial sales of the product, whether alone or in collaboration with others, • acceptance of the product in the medical community and with third-party payers and consumers, and • successfully completing future clinical trials. 14 Table of Contents There is no guarantee that we will successfully accomplish any or all of the above goals, and our inability to do so may result in significant delays, unanticipated costs or the failure of the clinical development and commercialization of pegloticase or future product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Pegloticase, and any other product candidate that we may develop in the future, must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before it can be approved for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy clinical trials and extensive manufacturing quality assessments to obtain regulatory approval. We completed the in-life portion of Phase 3 clinical trials for pegloticase and announced positive top-line results in December 2007 and February 2008 that the pre-specified primary efficacy endpoint in the Phase 3 clinical trials were met, and that an analysis of secondary endpoints showed statistical significance in the reduction of gout tophi and the number of tender and swollen joints, and other secondary endpoints. We also announced information related to the safety profile for pegloticase, including the incidence of infusion reactions and deaths of patients in the Phase 3 clinical trials. In addition, we announced that eighteen of one hundred and sixty-nine pegloticase treated patients in the Phase 3 clinical trials, or 11%, had an infusion reaction assessed as being either severe or severe and serious, with intensity levels assessed as severe, moderate or mild. Only eleven of these patients were assessed as being serious adverse events by the clinical investigators. We also announced that a total of six patient deaths occurred after randomization during the pegloticase Phase 3 clinical trial or following its completion. One patient died after screening and randomization to the placebo arm but died before administration of the first placebo dose. Three patients died during the pegloticase Phase 3 clinical trials and did not complete the study — two patients in the every two-week dosing arm and one patient in the monthly dosing arm. These deaths occurred nine days, three weeks and four weeks, respectively, after last exposure to pegloticase. Two patients died after they completed their participation in the clinical trials, three and four months, respectively, after receiving their final clinical trial infusion. One patient was assigned to a pegloticase treatment arm and the other patient was assigned to the placebo treatment arm. All patients who died had underlying severe, multiple co-morbidities and polypharmacy, with proximate cause of death other than the study drug. In all cases, neither the investigator nor our internal medical monitors attributed death to exposure to pegloticase. These announcements are based on preliminary results and reflect our views and opinions regarding the preliminary data. While we do not anticipate the need to conduct additional clinical trials in connection with the filing or approval of our BLA, we cannot forecast how the FDA or other regulatory authorities will view or consider the data upon review, or how any of the data set will be translated into label language, if approved. The FDA typically conducts its own analyses from the original data sets and may possibly come to different conclusions than those we reached with respect to the efficacy or safety of pegloticase. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will not require additional testing. Moreover, we may conduct additional clinical trials in support of expanded product labeling, additional indications and additional trials may be required prior to sales of pegloticase in the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions. 15 Table of Contents Clinical testing is expensive, is difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to the outcome. Success in early phases of clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize pegloticase or future product candidates, including: • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site, • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials, which will not be known to us prior to our pre-BLA meeting with the FDA in April 2008, • regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including a finding that subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or non-compliance with regulatory requirements, • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate, • we may encounter difficulties or delays in obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical products or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials, • any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions, and • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of pegloticase or future product candidates beyond those that we contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates, • not be able to obtain marketing approval, • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended, • not obtain marketing approval before other companies are able to bring competitive products to market, or • be required to conduct post-approval clinical trials or registry studies. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. Significant delays in clinical trials could also allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We may not be successful in establishing strategic alliances, which could adversely affect the implementation of our strategic business plan. If we are unsuccessful in reaching an agreement with a suitable collaborator or collaborators for our future product candidates we may fail to meet our business objectives for the applicable product or program. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, these alliance arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish strategic alliances or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any strategic alliances or other arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Moreover, such strategic alliances or other arrangements may not be successful. The risks that we are likely to face in connection with any future strategic alliances include the following: • strategic alliance agreements are typically for fixed terms and are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, in many cases without cause, • we may rely on collaborators to manufacture the products covered by our alliances, • the areas of research, development and commercialization that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties, may be limited as a result of non-competition provisions of our strategic alliance agreements, and • failure to establish a steady supply of essential raw materials from vendors. 16 Table of Contents Our strategic business plan includes a licensing initiative to collaborate with a partner for the development and commercialization of pegloticase outside the United States and Canada. If we are not successful in our efforts to partner pegloticase, then the full potential of pegloticase may not be realized. Although we may determine to enter certain markets outside of the United States and Canada ourselves, we are seeking to explore a development and commercialization partnership for pegloticase outside the United States and Canada as part of our strategic business plan. To date, however, we have not identified a suitable partner that meets the criteria we are seeking, and we may continue to have difficulty doing so for a number of reasons. In particular, certain companies may not want to partner with us to commercialize pegloticase because it is a biologic and they focus on small molecule products, or in some instances gout therapy is outside their preferred therapeutic area focus. Other companies only wish to partner for global rights, including the United States and Canada, a transaction structure that we do not wish to pursue. Additionally, the licensing and partnering of biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical products is a competitive area with numerous companies pursuing strategies similar to those that we are pursuing to license and partner products. These companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. If we are unsuccessful in partnering pegloticase outside the United States and Canada and are unable to fully exploit the commercial opportunity for the product ourselves in these markets, the full potential of pegloticase may not be realized. If we do not successfully recruit and train qualified sales and marketing personnel and build a marketing and sales infrastructure, our ability to independently launch and market pegloticase will be impaired. We will be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to establish a direct sales force. If it receives regulatory approval, we intend to independently launch and market pegloticase in the United States and Canada. We currently have no distribution capabilities and have limited sales and marketing capabilities. We may not be able to attract, hire and train qualified sales and marketing personnel to build a significant or successful sales force. If we are not successful in our efforts to develop an internal sales force, our ability to independently launch and market pegloticase will be impaired. We will have to invest significant amounts of money and management resources to develop internal sales and marketing capabilities. Because we plan to minimize sales and marketing expenditures and activities, including the hiring and training of sales personnel, prior to obtaining the regulatory approval for pegloticase, we may have insufficient time to build our sales and marketing capabilities in advance of the launch of pegloticase. If we are not successful in building adequate sales and marketing capabilities in advance of the launch of pegloticase, our ability to successfully commercialize the product may be impaired. If we develop these capabilities in advance of the launch of pegloticase and approval of pegloticase is delayed substantially or not granted at all, we will have incurred significant unrecoverable expenses. Our strategic business plan includes an initiative to in-license or partner other novel compounds to build our development portfolio. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our product portfolio in this manner. As part of our strategic business plan we are seeking an active in-licensing or partnering program to access and develop novel compounds in later clinical development. This is a highly competitive area with virtually every pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical company publicly stating that they are seeking in-license product opportunities. Certain of these companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products similar to those that we are pursuing. These companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from partnering, licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable product candidates include the following: • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within our areas of expertise, • we may be unable to license or acquire the relevant technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on our investment in the product, or • companies that perceive us to be their competitors may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates by obtaining rights to novel compounds from third parties, we may not be able to fully achieve our strategic business plan and our business could suffer. 17 Table of Contents The full development and commercialization of pegloticase and execution of our strategic business plan will require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products requires substantial funds. In addition, we may require cash to acquire new product candidates and to fully execute on our strategic business plan. In recent periods, we have satisfied our cash requirements primarily through product sales, the divestiture of assets that are not core to our strategic business plan and the monetization of underperforming investments, however, our product sales have decreased to $13.8 million in 2007 from $47.4 million in 2006, and we do not have further non-core assets to divest. Historically, we have also obtained capital through collaborations with third parties, contract fees, government funding and equity and debt financings. These financing alternatives might not be available in the future to satisfy our cash requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional funds or, if such funds are available, such funding may be on unacceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, either under our shelf registration statement or otherwise, dilution to our then existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or borrowings, we may incur substantial interest expense and could become subject to financial and other covenants that could restrict our ability to take specified actions, such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to significantly curtail our commercialization efforts or future development programs or obtain funds through sales of assets or arrangements with collaborative partners or others on less favorable terms than might otherwise be available. We incurred an operating loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 and anticipate that we may incur operating losses from continuing operations for the foreseeable future, particularly as a result of decreasing Oxandrin sales, which in the past accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize pegloticase or any other product candidates we may pursue, we may never achieve operating profitability. Since 2004, we have incurred substantial operating losses from continuing operations. Our operating losses from continuing operations were $69.2 million, $17.0 million and $14.5 million the years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our operating losses from continuing operations are the result of the interaction of two factors: increasing operating costs and decreasing revenues. We have and expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with our research and development activities, including clinical trials, and from general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. We have and expect to continue to experience decreasing revenues from sales of Oxandrin and, since its launch in December 2006, our generic Oxandrin brand equivalent product, oxandrolone, on which our continuing operations have been substantially dependent. Sales of Oxandrin and, since December 2006, oxandrolone accounted for 100%, 100%, and 92% of our continuing net product sales in the years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. If we do not commercially launch pegloticase, we expect that our revenues will continue to decline significantly, and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected, as the FDA has approved multiple generic versions of oxandrolone since December 2006. In addition to market erosion due to generic competition, our sales of Oxandrin and oxandrolone in the United States are impacted by fluctuations in the buying patterns of the three major drug wholesalers to whom we principally sell these products. In the past, wholesalers have reduced their inventories of Oxandrin and we expect that they will continue to reduce inventories as a result of generic competition, further decreasing our revenues from these products. Sales of Oxandrin and oxandrolone have also decreased as a result of the elimination or limited reimbursement practices of some states under their AIDS Drug Assistance Programs via their state Medicaid programs for prescription drugs for HIV and AIDS, including Oxandrin and oxandrolone. There can be no assurances that other state formularies will not follow suit. In addition, the implementation of the Medicare Part D program has created disruption in the market as patients switch to a variety of new prescription coverage programs in all states across the United States, further decreasing demand for Oxandrin and oxandrolone. We have considered the demand deterioration of Oxandrin and oxandrolone as part of our estimates into our product return; however our demand forecasts are based upon management’s best estimates. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, our allowance for product returns was $0.9 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Future product returns in excess of our historical reserves could reduce our revenues even further and adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to generate operating profitability in the future is dependent on the successful commercialization of pegloticase and any other product candidate that we may develop, license, partner or acquire. If we do not receive regulatory approval for and are unable to successfully commercialize pegloticase or any other product candidate, or if we experience significant delays or unanticipated costs in doing so, or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we may never achieve operating profitability. Even if we do become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If third parties on which we rely for distribution of our generic version of oxandrolone do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, our results of operations may be harmed. We do not have the ability to independently distribute our generic version of oxandrolone tablets and depend on our distribution partner, Watson Pharmaceuticals, to distribute this product for us. If Watson fails to carry out its obligations, does not devote sufficient resources to the distribution of oxandrolone, or does not carry out its responsibilities in the manner we expect, our oxandrolone product may not compete successfully against other generics, and our results of operations could be harmed. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical development activities for pegloticase and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not independently conduct clinical development activities for pegloticase, including any additional clinical trials we may conduct in the future in support of expanded product labeling and additional indications. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions, bio-analytical laboratories and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us and third parties acting on our behalf to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical development activities in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we may not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approvals for pegloticase and may not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize pegloticase. We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical development activities. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future distributors could delay regulatory approval or commercialization of pegloticase, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. Manufacturing our products requires us to meet stringent quality control and quality assurance standards. In addition, we depend on third parties to manufacture pegloticase and intend to rely on third parties to manufacture and supply any future products. If these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, and particularly our sole source supplier for pegloticase, fail to meet applicable regulatory requirements or to supply us for any reason, our revenues and product development efforts may be materially adversely affected. We depend on third parties for the supply of pegloticase. Failure of any third-party to meet applicable regulatory requirements and stringent quality control and quality assurance standards may adversely affect our results of operations or result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. 19 Table of Contents The manufacture of pegloticase involves a number of technical steps and requires our third-party suppliers and manufacturers to meet stringent quality control and quality assurance specifications imposed by us or by governmental regulatory bodies. Moreover, prior to the approval of our BLA our third-party manufacturers are subject to preapproval inspection by the FDA. In the event of a natural disaster, equipment failure, strike, war or other difficulty, our suppliers may be unable to manufacture our products in a manner necessary to fulfill demand. Our inability to fulfill market demand or the inability of our third-party manufacturers to meet our demands will have a direct and adverse impact on our sales and may also permit our licensees and distributors to terminate their agreements. Other risks involved with engaging third-party suppliers include: • reliance on the third-party for regulatory compliance and quality control and assurance, • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third-party or the inability of the third-party to meet our production schedules because of factors beyond our control, such as shortages in qualified personnel, and • the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third-party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. We rely on a single source supplier, BTG-Israel, for the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, of pegloticase, and although we have contracted with an additional supplier of pegloticase API, Diosynth RTP, Inc., we do not expect Diosynth to commence its commercial supply to us prior to mid-2010. In addition, the continued ability of BTG-Israel to consistently perform manufacturing activities for us may be affected by economic, military and political conditions in Israel and in the Middle East in general. The nature and scope of the technology transfer required to manufacture the product outside of BTG-Israel makes it unlikely that we will be able to initiate sources of supply of pegloticase API other than BTG-Israel prior to 2010. Escalating hostilities involving Israel could adversely affect BTG-Israel’s ability to supply adequate quantities of pegloticase API under our agreement. While we have secured a secondary source of supply of pegloticase API, Diosynth RTP, Inc., the time to conduct a technology transfer to enable Diosynth to scale up and validate its manufacturing processes, or the failure to successfully complete a technology transfer to Diosynth or to validate the manufacturing process in their facility, for pegloticase will be lengthy, and supply of pegloticase API from this secondary source is not expected to commence until mid-2010. An interruption in the supply of pegloticase API from BTG-Israel or raw materials from other third-party suppliers may materially adversely affect our ability to market pegloticase, which would harm our financial results. We operate in a highly competitive market. Our competitors may develop alternative technologies or safer or more effective products before we are able to do so. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. The technological areas in which we work continue to evolve at a rapid pace. Our future success will depend upon our ability to compete in the research, development and commercialization of products and technologies in our areas of focus. Competition from pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions is intense and we expect it to increase. Many of these competitors are substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater capital resources, research and development capabilities and experience and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. Acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical companies or other companies could enhance the financial, marketing and other resources available to these competitors. Rapid technological development may result in current or future product candidates becoming obsolete before we can begin marketing these products or are able to recover a significant portion of the research, development and commercialization expenses incurred in the development of these products. For example, since our launch of Oxandrin, a significant portion of Oxandrin sales has been for treatment of patients suffering from HIV-related weight loss. These patients’ needs for Oxandrin have decreased as a result of the development of safer or more effective treatments, such as protease inhibitors. In fact, since January 2001, growth in the AIDS-related weight loss market has slowed substantially and actually began to decline as a result of improved therapies to treat HIV-related weight loss. If and when commercialized, pegloticase will be launched in the gout treatment-failure population, an orphan indication for which there is currently no product commercially available. Products used to treat the symptoms of gout, such as gout flares and synovitis, could be used concomitantly in patients also using pegloticase, as long as symptoms and signs of the disease persist. Other uric acid lowering therapies, such as febuxostat, probenecid, and allopurinol, have not been tested for use in combination with pegloticase. 20 Table of Contents Our products must compete favorably to gain market acceptance and market share. An important factor in determining how well our products compete is the timing of market introduction of competitive products. For example, multiple competitors have entered into the oxandrolone market. These products, as well as our generic version of oxandrolone, have largely displaced Oxandrin. Additional competition also occurs with the entry of therapeutic options, for example, Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., or Par, introduced megace ES in June 2005. Megace ES is primarily displacing generic megace which represents a substantial portion of the involuntary weight loss market, but also has an effect on Oxandrin sales. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we and competing companies can develop other products, complete the clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market will be an important element of market success. Our competitors may develop safer, more effective or more affordable products or achieve earlier product development completion, patent protection, regulatory approval or product commercialization than we do. These companies also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and to attract third parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. Our competitors’ achievement of any of these goals could have a material adverse effect on our business. The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products are subject to the requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to satisfy these requirements, our business operations may be materially harmed. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated. Manufacturing activities must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and comparable requirements of foreign regulatory bodies. Failure by our third-party suppliers and manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations, requirements, or guidelines, or to meet FDA preapproval requirements, could result in sanctions being imposed on us, or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of pegloticase or future product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Other than by contract, we do not have control over the compliance by our third-party manufacturers or suppliers with these regulations and standards. Changes in manufacturing processes or procedures, including changes in the location where an API or a finished product is manufactured (such as the process we are engaged in with Diosynth) or changes in a third-party supplier may require prior FDA or other governmental review or approval or revalidation of the manufacturing process. This is particularly an issue with biologic products such as pegloticase. This review or revalidation may be costly and time-consuming. Because there are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under applicable regulatory requirements, it may be difficult for us to change a third-party supplier if we are otherwise required to do so. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers and a reduction in the payment or reimbursement rate could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Most patients rely on Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payers to pay for their medical needs, including any drugs we or our collaborators may market. If third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. The United States Congress enacted a limited prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients in the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 which was expanded by the Medicare Part D prescription plan that went into effect January 1, 2006. As a result, in some cases our prices are negotiated with drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries and are likely to be lower than if we did not participate in this program. Non-Medicare third-party drug procurement organizations may also base the price they are willing to pay on the rate paid by drug procurement organizations for Medicare beneficiaries. A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry is toward cost containment. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in commercialization of our products. 21 Table of Contents Third-party payers, states, and federally subsidized programs are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payers, states, and federally subsidized programs consistently limit reimbursement for healthcare products, including Oxandrin and our authorized generic version of oxandrolone. In particular, third-party payers may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products we may develop. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. If we fail to attract and retain senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our products will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel and to establish and maintain continuity and stability within our management team. There is a great deal of competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for the limited number of pharmaceutical development professionals with expertise in the areas of our activities. We generally do not enter into employment agreements with any of our product development personnel. In addition, we do not maintain, and have no current intention of obtaining, “key man” life insurance on any of our employees. If we cannot continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business and products, we may not be able to sustain our operations and execute our business plan. We may incur substantial costs related to product liability. The testing and marketing of our products entail an inherent risk of product liability and associated adverse publicity. Pharmaceutical product liability exposure could be extremely large and poses a material risk. We currently have product liability insurance coverage in place, which is subject to coverage limits and deductibles. We might not be able to maintain existing insurance or obtain additional insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. It is possible that a single product liability claim could exceed our insurance coverage limits, and multiple claims are possible. Any successful product liability claim made against us could substantially reduce or eliminate any stockholders’ equity we may have and could materially harm our financial results. Product liability claims, regardless of their merit, could be costly, divert management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. The ultimate outcome of pending securities litigation is uncertain. After the restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001 and the first two quarters of 2002, we and three of our former officers were named in a series of similar purported securities class action lawsuits. The complaints in these actions, which have been consolidated into one action, allege violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act through alleged material misrepresentations and omissions and seek an unspecified award of damages. Following a series of dismissals, the plaintiffs filed an appeal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and an oral argument of the appeal has been tentatively scheduled for late June 2008. We intend to contest the appeal vigorously. However, should the appeal prove successful and an adverse decision in this case is ultimately made, we could be adversely affected financially. We have referred these claims to our directors and officers insurance carrier, which has reserved its rights as to coverage with respect to this action. Tax requirements and audits could impact our results of operations. We are subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions. Our results of operations could be materially affected with a change in tax law or in the interpretation of tax law. This also includes the risk of changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by the taxing authorities. Failure to manage our tax strategies could lead to an additional tax charge. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2005 tax year and various state taxing authorities for certain tax years. Any material disagreement with taxing authorities could result in cash expenditures and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are party to various license agreements and we intend to enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our existing licenses impose various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us and we expect that future licenses that we may enter into would impose additional requirements on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Generic forms of our product Oxandrin were introduced to the market in late 2006. As a result, our results of operations have been harmed. The patents and patent applications related to pegloticase, if issued, would expire between 2019 and 2028. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We seek to protect this information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If our confidential information or trade secrets become publicly known, they may lose their value to us. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business may be adversely affected. Our development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. We are aware of patent applications filed by, or patents issued to, other entities with respect to technology potentially useful to us and, in some cases, related to products and processes being developed by us. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from the third-party and be required to pay license fees, royalties, or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. 23 Table of Contents There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office or in another patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could adversely affect our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. In the future we may be involved in costly legal proceedings to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation is inherently uncertain and an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights. Legal proceedings that we initiate to protect our intellectual property rights could also result in counterclaims or countersuits against us. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert our management’s time and attention. Any intellectual property litigation also could force us to take specific actions, including: • cease selling products or undertaking processes that are claimed to be infringing a third-party’s intellectual property, • obtain licenses to make, use, sell, offer for sale or import the relevant technologies from the intellectual property’s owner, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, • redesign those products or processes that are claimed to be infringing a third-party’s intellectual property, or • pursue legal remedies with third parties to enforce our indemnification rights, which may not adequately protect our interests. We have been involved in several lawsuits and disputes regarding intellectual property in the past. We could be involved in similar disputes or litigation with other third parties in the future. An adverse decision in any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory Risks We, our contract manufacturers, suppliers and contract research organizations, are subject to stringent governmental regulation, and our or their failure to comply with applicable regulations could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal and state governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA, as well as by foreign countries where we manufacture or distribute our products. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, promotion and distribution of pharmaceutical products for human use. All of our current and future product candidates, manufacturing processes and facilities require governmental licensing, registration or approval prior to commercial use, and maintenance of those approvals during commercialization. Prescription pharmaceutical products cannot be marketed in the United States until they have been approved by the FDA, and then can only be marketed for the indications and claims approved by the FDA. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a new drug application or a BLA are substantial. The approval process applicable to pegloticase and products of the type we may develop usually takes many years from the commencement of human clinical trials and typically requires substantial expenditures. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure necessary approvals or licenses. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our products, we are required to conduct pre-clinical and clinical trials to demonstrate that the product is safe, effective and of quality, for the treatment of the target indication. The timing of completion of clinical development activities depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in the policies of regulatory authorities. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, and mandate product withdrawals. 24 Table of Contents Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting our ability to commercialize our products, the timing of such commercialization, and our ongoing research and development activities. The timing of regulatory approvals, if any, is not within our control. Failure to obtain and maintain requisite governmental approvals, or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested, could delay or preclude us from marketing our products, limit the commercial use of the products and allow competitors time to introduce competing products ahead of product introductions by us. Even after regulatory approval is obtained, use of the products could reveal side effects that, if serious, could result in suspension of existing approvals and delays in obtaining approvals in other jurisdictions. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in significant fines or other sanctions, termination of clinical trials, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, imposition of operating restrictions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. We or our employees might not be, or might fail to be, in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, all pharmaceutical product promotion and advertising activities are subject to stringent regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. Violations of these regulations could result in substantial monetary penalties, and civil penalties which can include costly mandatory compliance programs and exclusion from federal healthcare programs. Recently enacted legislation may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to produce, market and distribute products after approval. In September 2007, the U.S. President signed the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA. The FDAAA grants a variety of new powers to the FDA, many of which are aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties. Although we expect the FDAAA to have a substantial effect on the pharmaceutical industry, the extent of that effect is not yet known. As the FDA issues regulations, guidance and interpretations relating to the new legislation, the impact on the industry, as well as our business, will become clearer. The new requirements and other changes that the FDAAA imposes may make it more difficult, and likely more costly, to obtain approval of new pharmaceutical products and to produce, market and distribute products after approval. In addition, from time to time legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could provide for a reduced regulatory threshold for the approval of generic competition, especially with respect to biologic products. We cannot predict what effect changes in regulations, enforcement positions, statutes or legal interpretations, when and if promulgated, adopted or enacted, may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, provide for a reduced regulatory threshold for the approval of generic competition, especially with regard to generic or “follow-on” biologics products, require changes to manufacturing methods or facilities, expanded or different labeling, new approvals, the recall, replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and expanded scientific substantiation requirements. These changes, or new legislation, could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price is volatile. Since January 1, 2006, our common stock had traded as high as $24.55 per share and as low as $3.58 per share. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our ability to successfully implement our strategic business plan, • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors, • announcements by us or our competitors of results in pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, • regulatory developments, • patent or proprietary rights developments, • public concern as to the safety or other implications of biotechnology products, • changes in our earnings estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, and • general economic, industry and market conditions. 25 Table of Contents The volatility of our common stock imposes a greater risk of capital losses on our stockholders than a less volatile stock would. In addition, volatility makes it difficult to ascribe a stable valuation to a stockholder’s holdings of our common stock. The stock market in general and the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular have also experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of the securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation would result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We expect our quarterly results to fluctuate, which may cause volatility in our stock price. Our revenues and expenses have in the past and may in the future continue to display significant variations. These variations may result from a variety of factors, including: • the amount and timing of product sales, • changing demand for our products, • our inability to provide adequate supply for our products, • changes in wholesaler buying patterns, • returns of expired product, • changes in government or private payer reimbursement policies for our products, • increased competition from new or existing products, including generic products, • the timing of the introduction of new products, • the timing and realization of milestone and other payments from licensees, • the timing and amount of expenses relating to research and development, product development and manufacturing activities, • the timing and amount of expenses relating to sales and marketing, • the timing and amount of expenses relating to general and administrative activities, • the extent and timing of costs of obtaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property rights, and • any charges related to acquisitions. Because many of our expenses are fixed, particularly in the short-term, any decrease in revenues will adversely affect our earnings until revenues can be increased or expenses reduced. We also expect that our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected now that generic versions of Oxandrin have been introduced. Because of fluctuations in revenues and expenses, it is possible that our operating results for a particular quarter or quarters will not meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance and stockholders should not rely on those comparisons to predict our future operating or share price performance. Effecting a change of control of our company could be difficult, which may discourage offers for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may delay or prevent an attempt by a third-party to acquire control of us. These provisions include the requirements of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits designated types of business combinations, including mergers, for a period of three years between us and any third-party that owns 15% or more of our common stock. This provision does not apply if: • our board of directors approves the transaction before the third-party acquires 15% of our stock, • the third-party acquires at least 85% of our stock at the time its ownership goes past the 15% level, or • our board of directors and two-thirds of the shares of our common stock not held by the third-party vote in favor of the transaction. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan intended to deter hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, which expires in October 2008, if any person or group acquires more than 20% of our common stock without approval of our board of directors under specified circumstances, our other stockholders have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. As a result, the plan makes an acquisition much more costly to a potential acquirer. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue up to 4 million shares of preferred stock in one or more different series with terms fixed by our board of directors. Stockholder approval is not necessary to issue preferred stock in this manner. Issuance of these shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a person or group to acquire control of us. No shares of our preferred stock are currently outstanding. While our board of directors has no current intention or plan to issue any preferred stock, issuance of these shares could also be used as an anti-takeover device. 26 Table of Contents 