Item 1A. Risk Factors The following issues and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in evaluating the Company’s future financial performance and prospects for growth. We may continue to experience losses selling commercial products. The market for our commercial products is highly competitive and subject to rapid changes in prices and demand. Our failure to successfully manage inventory levels or quickly respond to changes in pricing, technology or consumer tastes and demand could result in lower than expected revenue, lower gross margin and excess, obsolete and devalued inventories of our commercial products which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market conditions were characterized by rapid declines in end user pricing during portions of 2005 and 2006. Such declines cause the company’s inventory to lose value and trigger price protection obligations for channel inventory. Supply and pricing of LCD panels has been very volatile and will likely be in the future. This volatility, combined with lead times of five to eight weeks, may cause us to pay too much for products or suffer inadequate product supply. We do not have long-term agreements with our resellers, who generally may terminate our relationship with 30- to 60-days notice. Such action by our resellers could substantially harm our operating results in this segment. The Commercial segment has seen tremendous growth since we entered the market in fiscal 2001. Revenue from commercial products grew to $121.8 million in fiscal 2004, and decreased to $102.2 million and $84.0 million in fiscal 2005 and 2006, respectively. This revenue could continue to decrease due to competition, alternative products, pricing changes in the marketplace and potential shortages of products which would adversely affect our revenue levels and our results of operations. In addition, strategic changes made by the Company’s management could result in reduced revenue for the commercial segment. This segment absorbs a portion of the Company’s fixed costs. If this segment was discontinued or substantially reduced in size, it may not be possible to eliminate all of the fixed overhead costs that are allocated to the segment. If that were the case, a portion of the allocated fixed costs would have to be absorbed by the other segments, potentially adversely affecting our overall financial performance. Future operating results of Planar could be adversely affected as a result of purchase accounting treatment and the impact of amortization and impairment of intangible assets and stock compensation expense relating to the acquisition of Clarity. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, Planar has accounted for the acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. In addition, we expect Planar will incur large, ongoing expenses resulting from the amortization of intangible assets, including but not limited to purchased developed technology, trademarks and tradenames, and customer relationships. Under the purchase method of accounting, Planar has recorded the cash paid and the market value of the Planar capital stock issued in connection with the acquisition, the fair value of the options to purchase Planar common stock and the amount of direct transaction costs as the cost of acquiring the business of Clarity. Planar allocated the cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets (such as developed acquired technology, acquired trademarks and trade names and acquired customer relationships), based on their respective fair values at the date of the completion of the acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the fair market values of the underlying net identifiable assets deemed acquired was accounted for as goodwill. Planar will not be required to amortize goodwill against income but will be subject to an annual test for impairment or on an interim basis if an event or circumstance indicates that it is more likely than not that an impairment has been incurred. Management will consider these and other factors in performing the annual test for impairment. A determination of impairment could result in a material charge to operations in a period in which an impairment loss is incurred. 6 Planar will potentially incur significant costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Clarity. We believe that Planar may incur charges to operations, which are not currently reasonably estimable, in subsequent quarters following the acquisition associated with integration of Clarity. If the benefits of the acquisition do not exceed the costs associated with the acquisition and integration, Planar’s financial results could suffer and the market price of Planar’s common stock could decline. We may not be successful in our effort to enter new markets with new products. We have announced plans to enter the home theater display market and the commercial projector market with new products. These are products and markets that have not been part of our business in the past and we may not execute our plans for these products and markets successfully. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs. Inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary to produce our displays could result in reduced or delayed sales. We obtain much of the material we use in the manufacture of our displays from a limited number of suppliers, and we do not have long-term supply contracts with any of them. For some of this material we do not have a guaranteed alternative source of supply. As a result, we are subject to cost fluctuations, supply interruptions and difficulties in obtaining materials. The Company has in the past and may in the future face difficulties ensuring an adequate supply of quality high resolution glass used in its medical displays. We are continually engaged in efforts to address this risk area. For most of our products, vendor lead times significantly exceed our customers’ required delivery time causing us to order to forecast rather than order based on actual demand. Competition in the market continues to reduce the period of time customers will wait for product delivery. Ordering raw material and building finished goods based on our forecast exposes the Company to numerous risks including our inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, holding excess and obsolete inventory or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. We have increased our reliance on Asian manufacturing companies for the manufacture of displays that we sell in all the markets that the Company serves. We also rely on certain other contract manufacturing operations in Asia, including those that produce circuit boards, components, subassemblies and completed products. We do not have long-term supply contracts with the Asian contract manufacturers on which we rely. If any of these Asian manufacturers were to terminate its arrangements with us, make decisions to terminate production of these products, or become unable to provide these display products to us on a timely basis, we could be unable to sell our products until alternative manufacturing arrangements are made. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we would be able to establish replacement manufacturing or assembly arrangements and relationships on acceptable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including, but not limited to: • lack of control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • unanticipated interruptions in transportation and logistics; • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • potential termination by our vendors of agreements to supply materials to us, which would necessitate our contracting of alternative suppliers, which may not be possible; • risks associated with international commerce, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in tariffs; and 7 • trade policies and political and economic instability. Most of the contract manufacturers with which we do business are located in Asia which has experienced several earthquakes, tsunamis and typhoons which resulted in business interruptions. Our business could suffer significantly if the operations of vendors there or elsewhere were disrupted for extended periods of time. We currently have a contract with a software developer in India to develop software on our behalf. We do not have a long-term contract with this developer, and if the developer were to terminate its arrangement with us or become unable to provide software to us on a timely basis we could be unable to sell future products that this software would be integrated into. Changes in internal controls or accounting guidance could cause volatility in our stock price. The fiscal year ending September 30, 2005 was the first year that our internal controls over financial reporting were audited by our independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”). Guidance regarding implementation and interpretation of the provisions of Section 404 continues to be issued by the standards-setting community. As a result of the ongoing interpretation of new guidance and the audit testing to be completed in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting may include an unidentified material weakness which would result in receiving an adverse opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm. This could result in significant additional expenditures responding to the Section 404 internal control audit, heightened regulatory scrutiny and potentially an adverse effect to the price of our company’s stock. In addition, due to increased regulatory scrutiny surrounding publicly traded companies, the possibility exists that a restatement of past financial results could be necessitated by an alternative interpretation of present accounting guidance and practice. Although management does not currently anticipate that this will occur, a potential result of such interpretation could be an adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. A number of factors, including the failure to retain key employees, could impair Planar’s ability to successfully integrate the businesses of Clarity and Planar, which could harm Planar’s business, financial condition and results of operations. After the acquisition, Planar and Clarity, each of which had previously operated independently of the other, will need to integrate their respective operations. The integration will require significant efforts by Planar, including the coordination of product plans, research and development, sales and marketing efforts, management styles and expectations, and general and administration activities. The challenges involved in integrating the two businesses include, but are not limited to, the following: • retaining and integrating management and other key employees of each of Planar and Clarity to pursue the business objectives of Planar; • consolidating product plans and coordinating research and development activities to permit efficient time-to-market introductions and time-to-volume production for new products and technologies; • integrating assembly, quality, service, purchasing and procurement operations in multiple locations; • integrating sales efforts so that customers can do business easily with Planar • transitioning all facilities to common accounting and information technology systems; • developing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • maximizing efficiency of operations by eliminating redundant functions, centralizing functions in appropriate locations to the extent possible and discontinuing unprofitable lines of business; and • controlling the costs associated with integration 8 It is not certain that Planar and Clarity will be successfully integrated in a timely manner or at all or that any of the anticipated benefits will be realized. The risks of unsuccessful integration of the companies include: • impairment and/or loss of relationships with employees, customers and/or suppliers; • disruption of Planar’s business; • distraction of management; and • adverse financial results related to unanticipated expenses associated with integration of the two businesses. We face intense competition. The market for display products is highly competitive, and we expect this to continue and even intensify. We believe that over time this competition will have the effect of reducing average selling prices of our products. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition and financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. There is no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing products that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. To the extent we are unable to compete effectively against our competitors, whether due to such practices or otherwise, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • our effectiveness in designing new product solutions, including those incorporating new technologies; • our ability to anticipate and address the needs of our customers; • the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our product solutions; • foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause competitors’ products to be priced significantly lower than our product solutions; • the quality of our customer services; • the effectiveness of our supply chain management; • our ability to identify new vertical markets and develop attractive products for them; • our ability to develop and maintain effective sales channels; • the rate at which customers incorporate our product solutions into their own products; and • product or technology introductions by our competitors. Our continued success depends on the development of new products and technologies. Future results of operations will partly depend on our ability to improve and market our existing products and to successfully develop and market new products. Failing this, our products or technology could become obsolete or noncompetitive. New products and markets, by their nature, present significant risks and even if we are successful in developing new products, they typically result in pressure on gross margins during the initial phases as start-up activities are spread over lower initial sales volumes. We have experienced lower margins from new products and processes in the past, which have negatively impacted overall gross margins. In addition, customer relationships can be negatively impacted due to production problems and late delivery of shipments. Future operating results will depend on our ability to continue to provide new product solutions that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with competitors. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • use of advances in technology; 9 • innovative development of products for new markets; • efficient and cost-effective services; • timely completion of the design and manufacture of new product solutions; and • software currently being developed on our behalf by a software developer located in India. We face risks associated with international operations. Our manufacturing, sales and distribution operations in Europe and Asia create a number of logistical and communications challenges. Our international operations also expose us to various economic, political and other risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • management of a multi-national organization; • compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • employment and severance issues; • overlap of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • employee turnover or labor unrest; • lack of developed infrastructure; • difficulties protecting intellectual property; • risks associated with outbreaks of infectious diseases; • the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; and • political or economic instability in certain parts of the world. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, limitations on imports or exports, changes in environmental standards or regulations, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a materially adverse effect. Any actions by our host countries to curtail or reverse policies that encourage foreign investment or foreign trade also could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of our services to our U.S. customers. Variability of customer requirements or losses of key customers may adversely affect our operating results. We must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround and respond to ever-shorter lead times, while at the same time meet our customers’ product specifications and quality expectations. A variety of conditions, both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for their products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. These actions by a significant customer or by a set of customers could adversely affect our business. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which can strain our resources and reduce our margins. We may lack sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ demands. Products sold to two customers comprised 29%, 26% and 31% of total consolidated sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales to any of those customers, if lost, would have a material, adverse impact on the results of operations. If accounts receivable from a significant customer or set of customers became uncollectible, a resulting charge could have a material, adverse effect on our operations, although the Company does maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. 10 We may lose key licensors, sales representatives, foundries, licensees, vendors, other business partners and employees due to uncertainties regarding the acquisition which could seriously harm Planar. Sales representatives, vendors and others doing business with us may experience uncertainty about their future role with Planar or may elect not to continue doing business with Planar, or may seek to modify the terms under which they do business in ways that are less attractive, more costly, or otherwise damaging to the business of Planar. Similarly, employees of us may experience uncertainty about their future role with Planar until or after strategies with regard to Planar are announced or executed. This may adversely affect Planar’s ability to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel. The loss of a significant group of key technical personnel would seriously harm the product development efforts of Planar. The loss of key sales personnel could cause Planar to lose relationships with existing customers, which could cause a decline in the sales of Planar. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers. With the exception of the Industrial segment, our business is generally characterized by short-term purchase orders. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand which rely in part on nonbinding forecasts provided by our customers. As a result, our backlog generally does not exceed three months, which makes forecasting our sales difficult. Inaccuracies in our forecast as a result of changes in customer demand or otherwise may result in our inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, our holding excess and obsolete inventory or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. The failure to obtain anticipated orders and deferrals or cancellations of purchase commitments because of changes in customer requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced such problems in the past and may experience such problems in the future. Our operating results have significant fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments, other factors contribute to significant periodic quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the timing of orders; • the volume of orders relative to our capacity; • product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; • evolution in the lifecycles of customers’ products; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • product mix; • variation in operating expenses; • vesting of restricted stock based upon achievement of certain targeted stock prices • pricing and availability of competitive products and services; and • changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions. Accordingly, the results of any past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that, in some future period, our operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, our stock price may decrease. We must continue to add value to our portfolio of offerings. Traditional display components are subject to increasing competition to the point of commodification. In addition, advances in core LCD technology makes standard displays effective in an increasing breadth of 11 applications. We must add additional value to our products in software and services for which customers are willing to pay. These areas have not been a significant part of our business in the past and we may not execute well in the future. Failure to do so could adversely affect our revenue levels and our results of operations. We must protect our intellectual property, and others could infringe on or misappropriate our rights. We believe that our continued success partly depends on protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We seek to protect some of our technology under trade secret laws, which afford only limited protection. We face risks associated with our intellectual property, including, but not limited to, the following: • pending patent and copyright applications may not be issued; • patent and copyright applications are filed only in limited countries; • intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights; • others may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patent or copyright issued to us; • rights granted under patents or copyrights issued to us may not provide competitive advantages to us; • unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights; and • others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to us. We may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Litigation can be very expensive and can distract our management’s time and attention, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation. Others could claim that we are infringing their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the event of an allegation that we are infringing on another’s rights, we may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms from that party, if at all, or that party may commence litigation against us. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or the institution of litigation arising out of such claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have a contract with a software developer in India to develop software on our behalf. Any software developed by them on our behalf could be subject to patent infringement by others. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. During the past four fiscal quarters, the closing price of our stock ranged from $8.13 to $17.59. The market price of our common stock in the future is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • variations in our operating results; • public announcements by the Company as to its expectations of future sales and net income; • actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new product developments by us or our competitors; • changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • general conditions in the electronics industry; and • worldwide economic and financial conditions. 12 In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A significant slowdown in the demand for our customers’ products would adversely affect our business. In portions of our medical and industrial segments, we design and manufacture display solutions that our customers incorporate into their products. As a result, our success partly depends upon the market acceptance of our customers’ products. Accordingly, we must identify industries that have significant growth potential and establish relationships with customers who are successful in those industries. Failure to identify potential growth opportunities or establish relationships with customers in those industries would adversely affect our business. Dependence on the success of our customers’ products exposes us to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • our ability to match our design and manufacturing capacity with customer demand and to maintain satisfactory delivery schedules; • customer order patterns, changes in order mix and the level and timing of orders that we can manufacture and ship in a quarter; and • the cyclical nature of the industries and markets our customers serve. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and capacity. An inability to maintain sufficient levels of productivity or to satisfy delivery schedules at our manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our operating results. The design and manufacture of our EL displays involves highly complex processes that are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of personnel and equipment. At times we have experienced lower-than-anticipated manufacturing yields and lengthened delivery schedules and may experience such problems in the future, particularly with respect to new products or technologies. Any such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide any assurance that current environmental laws and product quality specification standards, or any laws or standards enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to environmental and product quality regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Some of our products use substances, such as lead, that are highly regulated or will not be allowed in certain jurisdictions in the future. We have redesigned certain products to eliminate such substances in our products. In addition, regulations have been enacted in certain jurisdictions which impose restrictions on waste disposal in the future. If we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations in connection with the use and disposal of such substances, we could be subject to significant liability or loss of future sales. Additionally, the European Union and certain European and other countries have established independent standards for certain medical products, including radiological imaging products, that are different from, and in some cases more restrictive than, the US standards. If we are unable to comply with these regulations or standards, or if other countries establish such regulations or standards with which we are unable to comply, we may not be allowed to sell our digital imaging or other products within the European Union and in other such countries. 13 EL products are manufactured at a single location, with no currently available substitute location. Our EL products, which are based on proprietary technology, are produced in our manufacturing facility located in Espoo, Finland. Because the EL technology and manufacturing process is proprietary and unique, there exists no alternative location where it may be produced, either by the Company, or by another manufacturer. As such, loss of or damage to the manufacturing facility, or attrition in the facility’s skilled workforce, could cause a disruption in the manufacturing of the EL products, which compose a significant portion of our sales. Additionally, there are many fixed costs associated with such a manufacturing facility. If revenue levels were to decrease or other problems were encountered, this could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Future viability of the manufacturing facility located in Espoo, Finland is based on continued demand for EL products. The majority of the products manufactured at the Company’s facility located in Espoo, Finland are based on EL technology. If demand for EL technology-based products diminishes significantly in the future, it could become necessary to cease manufacturing operations at this facility, which would likely result in an impairment loss on the associated property, plant and equipment, and restructuring charges related to employee severance. The value of intangible assets and goodwill may become impaired in the future. The company has intangible assets recorded on the balance sheet, which relate primarily to developed technology, trademarks and tradenames and customer relationships. The value of intangible assets represents our estimate of the net present value of future cash flows which can be derived from the intangible assets over time, and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the underlying assets. The estimated future cash flows of the intangible assets are evaluated on a regular basis, and if it becomes apparent that these estimates will not be met, a reduction in the value of intangible assets will be required. In addition, goodwill has been recorded which relates to the Medical segment and to the acquisition of the Command and Control and Digital Signage business. Goodwill is not amortized, but is evaluated for impairment annually, or when indicators of potential impairment exist. If the expected future cash flows decline, a reduction in the value of goodwill will be required, such as the reduction in value incurred in the fourth quarter of 2005. Our efforts to develop new technologies may not result in commercial success. Our research and development efforts with respect to new technologies may not result in market acceptance. Some or all of those technologies may not successfully make the transition from the research and development lab to cost-effective production as a result of technology problems, cost issues, yield problems and other factors. Even when we successfully complete a research and development effort with respect to a particular technology, we may fail to gain market acceptance due to: • inadequate access to sales channels; • superior products developed by our competitors; • price considerations; • ineffective market promotions and marketing programs; and • lack of market demand for the products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 