Item 1A. Risk Factors The following issues, risks, and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in evaluating the Company’s future financial performance and prospects for growth. The risks inherent in the Company’s operations could be heightened by ongoing worldwide economic weakness and potential lack of credit availability. In the recent past, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a dramatic downturn due to a variety of factors, including credit conditions, the housing market crisis, liquidity concerns, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. The downgrade of the U.S. and certain European country credit ratings and the possibility that certain European member states will default on their debt obligations have increased the already significant uncertainty about the stability of global credit and financial markets. These conditions make it extremely difficult for the Company’s customers, the Company’s vendors, and the Company to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In this time of economic difficulties, the Company’s financial performance and prospects for growth are subject to heightened risks including, but not limited to, the risk that the poor economic conditions and uncertainties in the credit and financial markets could adversely affect the amount, timing and stability of the demand for the Company’s products, the financial strength of the Company’s customers and vendors and their ability or willingness to do business with the Company, the ability of the Company’s customers and/or vendors to fulfill their obligations to the Company, and the ability of the Company’s customers and/or vendors to obtain credit in amounts and on terms acceptable to them. Each of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including: • disruptions in business relations between the Company and its vendors, which could result in delays or other difficulties obtaining, or increases in the price of, components and materials required for the Company’s products; • a rapid or unexpected decrease in demand for the Company’s products, including the cancellation or delay of existing or expected orders for the Company’s products, which could reduce sales and/or result in the Company carrying excess inventories; • a decline in the financial strength of the Company’s customers’ businesses which could result in the Company losing sales if the Company becomes unwilling to extend trade credit in connection with orders of its products, the customers inability to pay their vendors in a timely manner, declaring 5 bankruptcy or otherwise ceasing operations, any of which could harm the Company’s ability to collect on amounts due from its customers in a timely manner, or at all. The Company does maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company took a number of measures to reduce costs in response to the worldwide economic downturn over the past three years. However, in connection with the execution of the growth strategy adopted during fiscal 2011 the Company has since begun to refocus sales and marketing resources to better position it for sales growth. If the economic recovery were to slow or cease and dip back into recession, or if customer demand for the Company’s products were to otherwise not improve or slow down, the Company might be unable to adjust expense levels rapidly enough in response to falling demand or adequately reduce expenses without changing the way in which it operates in a manner that has adverse consequences. If revenues were to decrease further and the Company was unable to adequately reduce expense levels, it might incur significant losses that could potentially adversely affect the Company’s overall financial performance and the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s operating results can fluctuate significantly. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of commitments from the Company’s customers, other factors can contribute to significant periodic fluctuations in its results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the receipt and timing of orders and the timing of receipt of components and products from vendors and the timing of delivery of orders; • the inability to adjust expense levels or delays in adjusting expense levels, in either case in response to lower than expected revenues or gross margins; • the volume of orders relative to the Company’s capacity; • product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; • evolution in the lifecycles of customers’ products; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • variations in revenue and gross margins relating to the mix of products available for sale and the mix of products sold from period to period; • availability of sufficient quantities of the components of the Company’s products on a timely basis or at all; • variation in operating expenses; • vesting of restricted stock based upon achievement of certain performance measures; • pricing and availability of competitive products and services; • general economic conditions and changes—whether or not anticipated—in economic conditions; and • the ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, which could be limited by any Company indebtedness and the covenants of the Company’s existing credit facility. Accordingly, the results of any past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of the Company’s future performance. It is possible that, in some future period, the Company’s operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts and/or investors. If this occurs, the Company’s stock price may decrease. 6 The Company faces intense competition. Each of the markets served by the Company is highly competitive, and the Company expects this to continue and even intensify. The Company believes that over time this competition will have the effect of reducing average selling prices of its products. Certain of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater name recognition and financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than does the Company. There is no assurance that the Company will not face additional competitors or that the Company’s competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing products that would render the Company’s products obsolete or noncompetitive. To the extent the Company is unable to compete effectively, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside its control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the Company’s effectiveness in designing new product solutions, including those incorporating new technologies; • the Company’s ability to anticipate and address the needs of its customers; • the Company’s ability to develop innovative, new technologies and the extent to which such technologies can be protected as proprietary to the Company; • the Company’s ability to develop effective technology; • the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of the Company’s product solutions; • foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause competitors’ products to be priced significantly lower than the Company’s product solutions; • the quality of the Company’s customer services; • the effectiveness of the Company’s supply chain management; • the Company’s ability to identify new markets and develop attractive products to address the needs of such markets; • the Company’s ability to develop and maintain effective and financially viable sales channels; • the rate at which customers incorporate the Company’s product solutions into their own products; and • product or technology introductions by the Company’s competitors. The Company’s success depends on the development of new products and technologies. Future results of operations will partly depend on the Company’s ability to improve and successfully market its existing products, while also successfully developing and marketing new products and developing new markets for existing products and technologies. If the Company fails to do this, its products or technologies could become obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, if the Company were unable to successfully execute its transition from existing products to new offerings or technologies, it could result in the Company holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the past, the Company has reduced its spending on research and development projects as a part of overall cost reductions. The Company may be required to reduce research and development expenditures in future periods as a part of cost reduction programs. These reductions could impact the Company’s ability to improve its existing products and to successfully develop new products. New products and markets, by their nature, present significant risks and even if the Company is successful in developing new products, they typically result in pressure on gross margins during the initial phases as start-up activities are spread over lower initial sales volumes. The Company has experienced lower margins from new products and processes in the past, which have negatively impacted overall gross margins. In addition, customer 7 relationships can be negatively impacted due to production and product performance problems and late delivery of shipments. Future operating results will depend on the Company’s ability to continue to provide new product solutions that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with competitors. The Company’s success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • developing and/or deploying advances in technology; • developing innovative products for new markets; • offering efficient and cost-effective services; • timely completing the design and manufacture of new product solutions; and • developing proprietary technology positions and adequately protecting the Company’s proprietary property. The Company must continue to add value to its portfolio of offerings. Traditional display components are subject to increasing competition to the point of commoditization. In addition, advances in LCD technology make standard displays effective in an increasing breadth of applications. The Company must add additional value to its products and services for which customers are willing to pay. These areas could be outside of the Company’s historical business experience and it may not be successful at executing in such areas in the future. Failure to do so could adversely affect the Company’s revenue levels and its results of operations. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce the Company’s sales and increase its costs. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary to produce the Company’s displays could result in reduced or delayed sales. The Company obtains much of the material it uses in the manufacture of its products from a limited number of suppliers, and it generally does not have long-term supply contracts with vendors. For some of this material the Company does not generally have a guaranteed alternative source of supply. In addition, given the Company’s cash management practices, vendors may not be willing to continue to ship materials on credit terms that are acceptable to the Company, or may impose lower than optimal credit lines for the Company. As a result, the Company is subject to cost fluctuations, supply interruptions and difficulties in obtaining materials. The Company has in the past and may in the future face difficulties ensuring an adequate supply of various display components such as quality high resolution glass used in its products. In the future the Company may also face difficulties ensuring an adequate supply of the rear-projection screens used in certain video wall products. If a supplier were to cease production of material used by the Company in the manufacture of its products, and if the Company were unable to find a suitable alternative, it may be forced to purchase last-time buys of certain components which could negatively impact the Company’s cash position, and which, if unused, could result in the Company holding excess and obsolete inventory, which would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company is continually engaged in efforts to address this risk area. In another recent example of such supply risks, in fiscal 2010 the U.S. International Trade Commission issued an exclusion order banning the import of certain LCD panels incorporated by the Company in certain of its specialty display products. While this matter was resolved, any future inability of the Company to import adequate supplies of such panels, or products including such panels, or other products or components, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company is subject to vendor lead times that can vary considerably depending on capacity fluctuations and other manufacturing constraints of the Company’s vendors. These lead times can be significant when vendors operate with diminished capacity or experience other restrictions that limit their ability to produce products in a timely manner. For most of the Company’s products, vendor lead times significantly exceed its customers’ required delivery time causing the Company to order to forecast rather than order based on actual demand. Competition in the market continues to reduce the period of time customers will wait for product delivery. 8 Ordering raw materials and building finished goods based on the Company’s forecast exposes the Company to numerous risks including its inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, holding excess and obsolete inventory or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. In recent years, the Company has increased its reliance on Asian manufacturing companies for the manufacture of displays that it sells in all of the markets served by the Company. The Company also relies on certain other contract manufacturing operations in Asia, including those that produce circuit boards and other components, and those that manufacture and assemble certain of its products. Asia has experienced several earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, and interruptions to power supplies which resulted in business interruptions. In particular, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan caused some of the Company’s vendors and some of the suppliers of the Company’s vendors to halt, delay or reduce production of displays, display components and other materials which are used in the Company’s products. Similar events in future periods could result in the inability of vendors to manufacture and deliver to the Company in a timely manner the displays and other components in the types and quantities it needs to fully satisfy customer demand for its products. Many of the Company’s components are obtained from single and sole sources and, if at all possible, finding suitable alternative sources of supply for displays and other components used in the Company’s products may be difficult and time consuming, and obtaining them in required quantities in a timely manner and at acceptable costs may not be possible at all. Any significant interruption in the supply of displays, components and contract manufacturing capacity necessary to produce and sell the Company’s products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, constraints on the availability of certain natural resources used in the manufacturing process may impair manufacturers’ abilities to operate their facilities efficiently, which could result in longer lead times for components used in the Company’s products, disruptions to the Company’s sales, or an increase in the costs of these components. Further, there may be disruptions in transportation and logistics due to damaged infrastructure and concerns over radiation levels. This could result in potential disruption to the sales of the Company’s products and could increase the costs of transportation and shipping. The Company continues to monitor the situation in Japan and the effects on its operations. The Company does not have long-term supply contracts with the contract manufacturers and other suppliers on which it relies. If any of these manufacturers in Asia or elsewhere were to terminate its arrangements with the Company, make decisions to terminate production of components or products required by the Company, or become unable to provide necessary products or components to the Company on a timely basis, the Company could be unable to sell its products until alternative manufacturing arrangements are made. Furthermore, there is no assurance that the Company would be able to establish replacement manufacturing or assembly relationships on acceptable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company’s reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including, but not limited to: • lack of control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • unanticipated interruptions in transportation and logistics; • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • potential termination by vendors of agreements to supply materials to the Company, which would necessitate the Company’s contracting of alternative suppliers, which may not be possible; • risks associated with international commerce, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in duties and tariffs; and • trade policies and political and economic instability. 9 A significant slowdown in the demand for the products of certain of the Company’s customers would adversely affect its business. The Company designs and manufactures custom display solutions that its customers incorporate into their products. As a result, the Company’s success partly depends upon the market acceptance of its customers’ products. Accordingly, the Company must identify industries that have significant growth potential and establish relationships with customers who are successful in those industries. Failure to identify potential growth opportunities or establish relationships with customers who are successful in those industries would adversely affect the Company’s business. Dependence on the success of products of the Company’s customers exposes the Company to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • the Company’s ability to match its design and manufacturing capacity with customer demand and to maintain satisfactory delivery schedules; • customer order patterns, changes in order mix and the level and timing of orders that the Company can manufacture and ship in a quarter; and • the cyclical nature of the industries and markets served by the Company’s customers. These risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has aging information systems hardware and software, and capital investment and management attention will be required over the next 12 months to replace such systems. The Company maintains a variety of information systems in connection with the operation of its business, including an enterprise resource planning system (“ERP system”) that is integral to the Company’s ability to accurately and efficiently maintain its books and records, record its materials purchase transactions, manufacturing activities, account for and manage inventory and product sale transactions, provide critical business information to management, and prepare its financial statements. Certain of these systems, principally including the ERP system, are comprised of aging computer hardware and versions of software that are no longer actively supported by the vendor. The age of these systems heightens the risk of unanticipated difficulties, costs, disruptions and other adverse impacts and dictated that the Company take action to upgrade and improve the existing systems and replace them. The process of replacing the various hardware and software comprising, associated with or related to the Company’s ERP system began in fiscal 2012 and has caused, and will continue to cause the Company to incur costs, expend employee (including Company management) time and attention and otherwise burden the Company’s internal resources. This effort could detract from the Company’s various on-going business objectives. Failure to successfully replace the ERP system could damage the effectiveness of the Company’s business processes and controls and could adversely impact the Company’s ability to accurately and effectively forecast and manage sales demand, manage the Company’s supply chain, identify and implement actions that improve the Company’s operational effectiveness and margins, and report financial and management information on an accurate and timely basis. 10 The Company faces risks associated with other operations outside the United States. The Company’s manufacturing, sales and distribution operations in Europe and Asia create a number of logistical, systems and communications challenges. The Company’s international operations also expose the Company to various economic, political and other risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • management of a multi-national organization; • compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • employment and severance issues; • overlap of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • employee turnover or labor unrest; • lack of developed infrastructure; • difficulties protecting intellectual property; • difficulties repatriating funds without adverse tax effects; • risks associated with outbreaks of infectious diseases; • burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political or economic instability in certain parts of the world; • effects of doing business in currencies other than the Company’s functional currency; • effects of doing business in countries where the local currency is pegged to the currency of another country (For instance the exchange rate of the Chinese RMB to the U.S. Dollar is closely monitored by the Chinese government and there have been recent increases in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. Dollar. The Company purchases a significant amount of goods from Chinese suppliers and, while those purchases are typically denominated in U.S. Dollars, increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. Dollar would tend to cause the cost of such goods to increase); and • effects of foreign currency fluctuations on overall financial results. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, limitations on imports or exports, changes in environmental standards or regulations, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a materially adverse effect. Any actions by the Company’s host countries to curtail or reverse policies that encourage foreign investment or foreign trade also could adversely affect its operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of the Company’s services to its U.S. customers. Future financial results of Planar could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. While the Company is for the most part naturally hedged due to approximately equal foreign denominated sales and expenses, the Company is exposed to certain risks relating to U.S. Dollar denominated assets primarily held in Europe. In the past the Company has managed this non-cash generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) income statement risk by periodically entering into forward exchange contracts to mitigate the income statement impact of fluctuations in the Euro value of certain U.S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities. Due to volatility in the foreign exchange market and the Company’s strategic shift to preserve cash the Company adjusted its hedging strategy and as of March 27, 2009 discontinued its previous practice of hedging foreign currency risk through forward exchange contracts. As a result the Company may experience non-cash GAAP income statement losses due to changes in the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro exchange rate. 11 The value of intangible assets may become impaired in the future. The Company has intangible assets recorded on the balance sheet as a result of the acquisition of Clarity Visual Systems, Inc. that relate primarily to developed technology, patents, and customer relationships. The initial value of intangible assets recorded at the time of acquisition represented the Company’s estimate of the net present value of future cash flows which can be derived from the intangible assets over time, and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the underlying assets. The remaining $0.6 million of the intangible assets represents customer relationships and will be amortized over the useful lives of the respective assets of approximately one year and could, in the future, experience additional impairment. The estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the intangible assets are evaluated when a triggering event is identified, and if it becomes apparent that these estimates will not be met, a reduction in the value of intangible assets will be required, as occurred in fiscal 2008. A determination of impairment of intangible assets could result in a material charge to operations in a period in which an impairment loss is recognized, as occurred in fiscal 2008. While such a charge would not have an effect on the Company’s cash flows, it would impact the net income in the period it was recognized. Future indebtedness could reduce the Company’s ability to use cash flow for purposes other than debt service or otherwise restrict the Company’s activities. The Company’s amended and restated credit agreement, as amended on November 16, 2012, has a maximum borrowing capacity of $12.0 million and expires on December 1, 2013. As of September 28, 2012 there were no amounts outstanding under this credit agreement. If the Company incurred a significant amount of debt, the leverage would reduce the Company’s ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. High leverage would also limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and increases vulnerability to a downturn in the business and general adverse economic and industry conditions. Substantially all of the assets of the Company are pledged as security for the performance of the Company’s obligations under its credit agreement, which includes certain financial covenants, as discussed in Note 12—Borrowings in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. The Company may not generate sufficient profitability to meet these covenants. Failure by the Company to comply with applicable covenants, or to obtain waivers therefrom, would result in an event of default, and could result in the Company being unable to borrow amounts under the agreement, or could result in the acceleration of any amounts outstanding at that time, which, in turn could lead to the Company’s inability to pay its debts and the loss of control of its assets. In addition, the current credit agreement expires on December 1, 2013. If the Company were unable to renew or extend this agreement, the Company may need to pursue other sources of financing. Other sources of credit may not be available at all and, even if such credit is available, it may only be available on terms (including the cost of borrowing) that are unattractive to the Company. If credit is not available to fully satisfy the Company’s liquidity needs, the Company may need to dispose of additional assets. In addition, the Company’s position on indefinite reinvestment of unremitted earnings from foreign operations may limit its ability to transfer cash between or across foreign and U.S. operations as may be required. The Company may experience losses selling certain desktop monitors or other low margin products. The market for the Company’s desktop monitor products is highly competitive and subject to rapid changes in prices and demand. The Company’s failure to successfully manage inventory levels or quickly respond to changes in pricing, technology or consumer tastes and demand could result in lower than expected revenue, lower gross margin and excess, obsolete and devalued inventories of its desktop monitor products which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Past market conditions have been characterized by rapid declines in end user pricing. Such declines caused the Company’s inventory to lose value and triggered price protection obligations for channel inventory. Supply and pricing of LCD panels has been volatile in the past and may be in the future. This volatility, combined with lead times of five to eight weeks, may cause the Company to pay too much for products or suffer inadequate product supply. 12 The Company does not have long-term agreements with its resellers, who generally may terminate their relationship with the Company with little or no notice. Such action by the Company’s resellers could substantially harm the Company’s operating results. Revenue could decrease due to reductions in demand, competition, alternative products, pricing changes in the marketplace and potential shortages of products which would adversely affect the Company’s revenue levels and its results of operations. In addition, strategic changes made by the Company’s management to invest greater resources in specialty display markets could result in reduced revenue from desktop monitors. The disposal or elimination of a business or product line could result in unabsorbed overhead costs that must be absorbed by the Company’s remaining product lines. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 the Company disposed of its subsidiary that sold products to the medical diagnostic imaging market, in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 the Company sold its digital signage software assets, and in the first quarter of 2013 the Company sold its EL assets and liabilities. If the Company were to discontinue or substantially reduce its efforts to sell products to any of its targeted end-markets, or to discontinue certain businesses or product lines, for the purpose of reducing costs or losses or otherwise, it may not be possible to eliminate all associated fixed overhead costs which would have to be absorbed by the revenues generated by selling its other products to the remaining targeted end-markets. This could potentially adversely affect the Company’s overall financial performance in the future. The recent sale of the Company’s EL display assets and liabilities involves significant risks. In November 2012, the Company completed a transaction in which Beneq Products Oy (“Beneq”) purchased from the Company substantially all of the assets, and assumed certain liabilities, used or necessary in the Company’s EL display business (the “EL Transaction”). The completion of the EL Transaction presents certain significant risks to the Company, including but not limited to: • The assets sold to Beneq as part of the EL Transaction included the Company’s enterprise resource planning (or “ERP”) system software and hardware used by the Company to process and manage data relating to the manufacture and sale of the Company’s products in Europe as well as to receive, process, bill and ship orders on a timely basis and collect and report all financial and accounting information related to those transaction (the “IT Services”). The Company has entered into a Mutual Co-Operation and Services Agreement (the “Transition Services Agreement”) with Beneq pursuant to which, among other things, Beneq has agreed to continue providing the Company with IT Services necessary to permit the Company to continue its on-going European business operations. If the IT Services provided by Beneq are not adequate or were interrupted for any reason, the Company may be unable to find an alternative means of obtaining such IT Services, which would significantly impair the Company’s ability to serve its customers and conduct its business operations in Europe. Beneq’s obligations to provide the IT Services extend to November 30, 2013. The Company plans to migrate to a new ERP platform prior to that date. However, to the extent that the Company does not complete the migration by that date, and is not successful in obtaining a continuation in Beneq’s delivery of the IT Services, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. • Pursuant to the terms of the Transition Services Agreement, in addition to the IT Services Beneq has agreed to provide to the Company, the Company has agreed to provide to Beneq certain transition services in the areas of sales and operations management and infrastructure services for a period ending November 30, 2013. The delivery of transition services by the Company and the monitoring of transition services received by the Company will divert management and employee attention, and may involve the expenditure of substantial amounts of employee time and financial resources. The Company’s inability to effectively manage its delivery of services to Beneq and/or its receipt of services from Beneq, under the Transition Services Agreement could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 • Under the agreements entered into with Beneq in connection with the EL Transaction, the Company may incur certain future liabilities, costs and expenses related to the EL Transaction, including claims by Beneq for (i) losses incurred by Beneq as a result of breaches of representations and warranties given by the Company, or (ii) liabilities relating to the EL display business that the Company retained as part of the EL Transaction. Any material liabilities, costs or expenses incurred by the Company as a result of an indemnification claim by Beneq could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. • In the EL Transaction, Beneq paid a portion of the purchase price in promissory notes payable over a term of five years. A default by Beneq on the payments due under the promissory notes could materially and adversely affect the assets and financial condition of the Company. Variability of customer requirements or losses of key customers may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround and respond to ever-shorter lead times, while at the same time meet its customers’ product specifications and quality expectations. A variety of conditions, including bankruptcy and other conditions both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for their products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. These actions by a significant customer or by a set of customers could adversely affect the Company’s business. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which can strain the Company’s resources and reduce margins. The Company may lack sufficient capacity at any given time to meet customers’ demands. Sales to a significant customer, if lost, could have a material, adverse impact on the results of operations. If accounts receivable from a significant customer or set of customers became uncollectible, a resulting charge could have a material adverse effect on operations, although the Company does maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company may lose key licensors, sales representatives, foundries, licensees, vendors, other business partners and employees due to uncertainties regarding the future results of Planar or the worldwide economic condition, which could seriously harm Planar. Sales representatives, vendors, resellers, distributors, and others doing business with the Company may experience uncertainty about their future role with the Company, may elect not to continue doing business with Planar, may seek to modify the terms under which they do business in ways that are less attractive, more costly, or otherwise damaging to the business of Planar, or may declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations. Loss of relationships with these business partners could adversely affect Planar’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Similarly, the Company’s employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with the Company to the extent that its operations are unsuccessful or its strategies are changed significantly. This may adversely affect Planar’s ability to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel. The loss of a significant group of key technical personnel would seriously harm the product development efforts of Planar. The loss of key sales personnel could cause the Company to lose relationships with existing customers, which could cause a decline in the sales of the Company’s products. The Company does not have long-term purchase commitments from its customers. The Company’s business is generally characterized by short-term purchase orders and contracts which specify certain sales terms but which do not require that purchases be made. The Company typically plans its production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand which rely in part on nonbinding forecasts provided by its customers. As a result, the Company’s backlog generally does not exceed three months, which makes forecasting its sales difficult. Inaccuracies in the Company’s forecast as a result of changes in customer demand or otherwise may result in its inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, the Company holding excess and obsolete inventory, or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. The failure 14 to obtain anticipated orders and deferrals or cancellations of purchase commitments because of changes in customer requirements, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has experienced such problems in the past and may experience such problems in the future. Economic or industry factors could result in portions of the Company’s inventory becoming obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. The Company is exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in write-offs of inventory. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological and regulatory changes in the Company’s markets, the Company’s ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, forecasting errors, new product introductions, quality issues with key suppliers, product phase-outs, future customer service and repair requirements, and the availability of key components from the Company’s suppliers. Additionally, while the Company does not generally enter into long-term purchasing commitments with its suppliers, there are certain suppliers of high-end home products with which the Company has long-term purchasing commitments. These commitments could require the Company to purchase inventory it considers obsolete. The Company must protect its intellectual property, and others could infringe on or misappropriate its rights. The Company believes that its business success depends, in part, on developing proprietary intellectual property and protecting its proprietary technology. The Company relies on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its intellectual property. The Company seeks to protect some of its technology under trade secret laws, which afford only limited protection. The Company faces risks associated with its intellectual property, including, but not limited to, the following: • pending patent and copyright applications may not be issued or may be significantly limited in scope prior to issuance; • patent and copyright applications are filed only in a limited number of countries; • intellectual property laws may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights; • others may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patent or copyright issued to the Company; • rights granted under patents or copyrights issued to the Company may not provide competitive advantages to the Company; • unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary despite its efforts to protect its proprietary rights; and • others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to the Company. The Company may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect its intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Litigation can be very expensive and can distract management’s time and attention, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation. Others could claim that the Company is infringing their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the event of an allegation that the Company is infringing on another’s rights, it may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms from that party, if at all, or that party may commence litigation against the Company. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or the institution of litigation arising out of such claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, a technology licensing company has asserted that various of the Company’s products 15 require a license under certain patents held by such party. In addition, in recent fiscal years, the Company has been made party to lawsuits (among many other defendants) alleging infringement of certain United States patents relating to certain products marketed and sold by the Company, including stands for multiple displays, the Company’s Indisys image processing products and certain projector products. Each of these matters has been resolved and the Company will vigorously defend itself against the assertion of any future claims for infringement and will, as a matter of course, seek indemnification from third-party suppliers, where available. While the Company would, in each instance, seek indemnification from the manufacturer of an accused product if it were found to be liable, a determination of liability against the Company could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. During the Company’s four most recently completed fiscal quarters, the closing price of the Company’s stock ranged from $1.26 to $2.60. The market price of the Company’s common stock in the future is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • variations in the Company’s operating results and financial condition; • variations in trading volumes of the Company’s stock; • public announcements by the Company as to its expectations of future sales and net income or loss; • actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new product developments by the Company or its competitors; • changes in analysts’ estimates of the Company’s financial performance; • general conditions in the electronics industry; and • worldwide economic and financial conditions. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may continue to adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company faces risks in connection with potential acquisitions. The Company has made several acquisitions during its history. Not all of these acquisitions have been successful. It is possible that the Company will make additional acquisitions in the future. The Company’s ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend on, among other things, the adequacy of its implementation plans, the ability of management to oversee and effectively operate the combined operations and the Company’s ability to achieve desired operational efficiencies. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies is often difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, the Company could lose key personnel from companies that it acquires, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, or fail to establish satisfactory internal controls. Any of these difficulties could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and decrease revenues. Furthermore, the Company might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact the Company’s financial results and increase its financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute the Company’s then existing shareholders’ ownership. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions, the Company could: • incur amortization expense related to intangible assets; • uncover previously unknown liabilities; or 16 • incur large and immediate write-offs that would reduce net income. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisition may not be successful. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate the operations of any businesses that it may acquire in the future, its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes in internal controls or accounting guidance could cause volatility in the Company’s stock price. The Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are not currently required to be audited by its independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”). If, in future periods, the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are required to be audited by its independent registered public accounting firm significant additional expenditures could be incurred which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. Additionally, an audit by the independent public accounting firm could identify a material weakness which would result in the Company receiving an adverse opinion on its internal controls over financial reporting from its independent registered public accounting firm. This could result in additional expenditures responding to the Section 404 internal control audit, heightened regulatory scrutiny and potentially an adverse effect to the price of the Company’s stock. The Company must maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and capacity. An inability to maintain sufficient levels of productivity or to satisfy delivery schedules at the Company’s manufacturing facilities would adversely affect its operating results. At times the Company has experienced lower-than-anticipated manufacturing yields and capacity and lengthened delivery schedules and may experience such problems again in the future, particularly with respect to new products or technologies. Any such problems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current environmental laws and product quality specification standards, or any laws or standards enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental and various other regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. Some of the Company’s products use substances, such as lead, that are highly regulated or will not be allowed in certain jurisdictions in the future. The Company has redesigned certain products to eliminate such substances in its products. In addition, regulations have been enacted in certain jurisdictions which impose restrictions on waste disposal of electronic products and electronics recycling obligations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable rules and regulations in connection with the use and disposal of such substances or other environmental or recycling legislation, it could be subject to significant liability or loss of future sales. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 