Item 1A. Risk Factors The following issues and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in evaluating the Company’s future financial performance and prospects for growth. The risks inherent in the Company’s operations could be heightened by the current worldwide economic crisis and lack of credit availability. In the recent past, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a dramatic downturn due to credit conditions, liquidity concerns, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. These conditions make it extremely difficult for the Company’s customers, the Company’s vendors, and the Company to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In this time of extreme economic difficulties, the Company’s financial performance and prospects for growth are subject to heightened risks including, but not limited to, the risk that the poor and possibly worsening economic conditions could result in: • Vendors declaring bankruptcy or otherwise ceasing operations which could result in difficulties obtaining, or increases in the price of, components and materials required for Planar’s products; • A rapid or unexpected decrease in demand for the Company’s products which could reduce sales and/or result in the Company carrying excess inventories; • Difficulties renewing or replacing the Company’s current credit agreement, or otherwise obtaining sufficient credit on terms the Company finds satisfactory; and/or • A decline in customers’ businesses which could result in their inability to pay their vendors in a timely manner, declaring bankruptcy or otherwise ceasing operations, any of which could harm Planar’s ability to collect on amounts due from its customers in a timely manner, or at all. The Company does maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. 5 The Company has taken measures to reduce costs in response to the worldwide economic downturn and the related decreases in revenue levels. If customer demand were to decline further, the Company might be unable to continue to adjust expense levels rapidly enough in response to falling demand or without changing the way in which it operates. If revenues were to decrease further and the Company was unable to reduce expense levels, it might incur significant losses that could potentially adversely affect the Company’s overall financial performance and the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may not be successful in its effort to enter new markets with new products and may experience losses in the Home Theater segment. The Company initially entered the Home Theater display market with new Planar branded products. Thereafter, the Company completed the acquisition of Runco, a leading brand in the custom Home Theater market. These are products and markets that have not been part of business in the past and the Company has not and may continue not to execute its plans for these products and markets successfully. For instance, in 2008 the Company experienced reduced demand for its Home Theater products due to execution issues in connection with the integration of the Runco operations into the Company’s existing operations. The Company has also experienced weakened business and economic conditions in the United States that materially and adversely impacted its sales and profitability in the Home Theater segment throughout 2008 and 2009. The Company has incurred significant charges related to the restructuring of the Home Theater segment as it phased out the Vidikron brand and is in the process of phasing out Planar branded Home Theater products. In the future, the Company could incur additional restructuring charges and operating losses related to the Home Theater segment. This segment absorbs a portion of the Company’s fixed costs. If this segment was discontinued or substantially reduced in size, it may not be possible to eliminate all of the fixed overhead costs that are allocated to the segment. If that were the case, a portion of the allocated fixed costs would have to be absorbed by the other segments, potentially adversely affecting the Company’s overall financial performance. The Company’s operating results have significant fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of commitments from the Company’s customers, other factors contribute to significant periodic fluctuations in its results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the receipt and timing of orders and the timing of delivery of orders; • the inability to adjust expense levels or delays in adjusting expense levels, in either case in response to lower than expected revenues or gross margins; • the volume of orders relative to the Company’s capacity; • product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; • evolution in the lifecycles of customers’ products; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • the mix of products available for sale and the mix of products sold from period to period; • Availability of sufficient quantities of the components of the Company’s products; • variation in operating expenses; • vesting of restricted stock based upon achievement of certain performance measures; • pricing and availability of competitive products and services; • general economic conditions and changes—whether or not anticipated—in economic conditions; and • the ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, which could be limited by the Company’s indebtedness and related covenants. 6 Accordingly, the results of any past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of the Company’s future performance. It is likely that, in some future period, the Company’s operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the Company’s stock price may decrease. A number of factors could impair Planar’s ability to successfully operate the Home Theater business, which could harm Planar’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has incurred significant costs associated with the acquisition of Runco and has now fully integrated Runco, which had previously operated independently as a private company. These costs include the goodwill and intangible impairment charges recorded in fiscal 2008. The Company believes that it may incur additional charges to operations, which are not currently reasonably estimable, in subsequent quarters associated with the activities of the Home Theater segment. If the benefits of the acquisition continue to not exceed the associated costs, or if completed integration activities are determined to have been improperly executed, Planar’s financial results and cash flows could suffer further and the market price of Planar’s common stock could continue to decline. The anticipated benefits of the Runco acquisition have not yet been, and may not be realized in the future. Operation of this business will continue to require significant efforts by Planar, including the determination of appropriate resources to allocate to product plans, research and development, sales and marketing efforts, and general and administration activities. The challenges involved in successfully operating the business include, but are not limited to, the following: • consolidating product plans and coordinating research and development activities to permit efficient time-to-market introductions and time-to-volume production for new products and technologies; • creating adequate sales volume during the current period of economic distress to generate consistent profits and cash flow; • collecting cash from customer accounts; • maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including controls over quality assurance; and • maximizing efficiency of operations by eliminating redundant functions, centralizing functions in appropriate locations to the extent possible and discontinuing unprofitable lines of business. The risks of unsuccessful operation of the Home Theater business include: • disruption of Planar’s business • distraction of management; and • adverse financial results related to unanticipated expenses or losses associated with operation of the businesses. Future financial results of Planar could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing business operations as the Euro is the functional currency of the Company’s European subsidiaries. In the past the Company has managed this risk by periodically entering into forward exchange contracts to mitigate the income statement impact of fluctuations in the Euro value of certain U.S. Dollar denominated assets and liabilities. Due to recent volatility in the foreign exchange market and the Company’s strategic shift to preserve cash the Company adjusted its hedging strategy and as of March 27, 2009 no longer hedges foreign currency risk through forward exchange contracts. As a result the Company may not be able to effectively manage foreign currency risks and may experience losses due to changes in the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro exchange rate which could harm its overall financial condition or results of operations. 7 The value of intangible assets and goodwill may become impaired in the future. The Company has intangible assets recorded on the balance sheet, which relate primarily to developed technology, patents, trademarks and tradenames, and customer relationships. The value of intangible assets represents the Company’s estimate of the net present value of future cash flows which can be derived from the intangible assets over time, and is amortized over the estimated useful life of the underlying assets. The remaining $5.7 million of the intangible assets will be amortized over the useful lives of the respective assets of approximately 2.8 years and could, in the future, experience additional impairment. The estimated future cash flows of the intangible assets are evaluated on a regular basis, and if it becomes apparent that these estimates will not be met, a reduction in the value of intangible assets will be required, as occurred in fiscal 2008. A determination of impairment of intangible assets, goodwill, or both, could result in a material charge to operations in a period in which an impairment loss is recognized, as occurred in fiscal 2008. While such a charge would not have an effect on the Company’s cash flows, it would impact the net income in the period it was recognized. Future indebtedness could reduce the Company’s ability to use cash flow for purposes other than debt service or otherwise restrict the Company’s activities. As of September 25, 2009 the Company had no amounts outstanding under its credit agreement, which had a maximum $20 million borrowing capacity. On December 1, 2009 the Company entered into an amended and restated credit agreement which has a maximum borrowing capacity of $12 million and expires on December 1, 2010. If the Company incurred a significant amount of debt, the leverage would reduce the Company’s ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. High leverage would also limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and increases vulnerability to a downturn in the business and general adverse economic and industry conditions. Substantially all of the assets of the Company are pledged as security under its credit agreement, which includes certain financial covenants, as discussed in Note 9—Borrowings in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. The Company may not generate sufficient profitability to meet these covenants. Failure by the Company to comply with applicable covenants, or to obtain waivers therefrom, would result in an event of default, and could result in the Company being unable to borrow amounts under the agreement, or could result in the acceleration of any amounts outstanding at that time, which, in turn could lead to the Company’s inability to pay its debts and the loss of control of its assets. In addition, the current credit agreement expires on December 1, 2010. If the Company were unable to renew or extend this agreement, the Company would need to pursue other sources of financing. Other sources of credit may not be available at all and, even if such credit is available, it may only be available on terms (including the cost of borrowing) that are unattractive to the Company. If credit is not available to fully satisfy the Company’s liquidity needs, the Company may need to dispose of additional assets. The Company may not be able to maintain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. The Company’s common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, the Company must satisfy financial and other continued listing requirements. For example, NASDAQ rules require that the Company maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for its common stock. The Company’s closing stock price was below the $1.00 minimum bid requirement from November 20, 2008 to April 22, 2009 and on April 30, 2009 and May 4, 2009. Ordinarily, if a company’s closing bid price is below $1.00 for thirty consecutive trading days, it receives a notice from NASDAQ that it is subject to delisting if it fails to regain compliance within six months following the date of the notice letter. If the closing bid price for the Company’s common stock is below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, the Company would expect to receive a notice letter from NASDAQ stating that it will be delisted if it does not regain compliance. NASDAQ suspended the $1.00 minimum bid requirement on October 16, 2008 and reinstated the requirement on August 3, 2009. Accordingly, the Company did not receive such a notice from NASDAQ. If in the future, the Company’s closing stock price were below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days it would expect to receive a notice from NASDAQ. In order to regain compliance, the Company would have to attain a 8 bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days prior to the expiration of six months from the date of the notice letter from NASDAQ. In addition, to retain its listing on The NASDAQ Global Market the Company must maintain minimum shareholders’ equity of $10.0 million and an aggregate market value of the Company’s common stock of $5.0 million. The Company may not continue to meet the minimum bid price requirement under NASDAQ rules or the other applicable continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market. If the Company fails to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market in the future and NASDAQ determines to delist its common stock and the common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of the Company’s common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of the Company’s common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in the Company’s coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of its common stock to decline further. If an active trading market for the Company’s common stock is not sustained, it will be difficult for its shareholders to sell shares of the Company’s common stock without further depressing the market price of its common stock or at all. A delisting of the Company’s common stock also could make it more difficult for the Company to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. The Company may experience losses selling Commercial products. The market for the Company’s Commercial products is highly competitive and subject to rapid changes in prices and demand. The Company’s failure to successfully manage inventory levels or quickly respond to changes in pricing, technology or consumer tastes and demand could result in lower than expected revenue, lower gross margin and excess, obsolete and devalued inventories of its Commercial products which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Market conditions were characterized by rapid declines in end user pricing during portions of 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008. Such declines cause the Company’s inventory to lose value and trigger price protection obligations for channel inventory. Supply and pricing of LCD panels has been very volatile and will likely be in the future. This volatility, combined with lead times of five to eight weeks, may cause the Company to pay too much for products or suffer inadequate product supply. The Company does not have long-term agreements with its resellers, who generally may terminate their relationship with the Company with little or no notice. Such action by the Company’s resellers could substantially harm its operating results in this segment. Revenue from Commercial products grew to $102.2 million in fiscal 2005, and decreased to $83.4 million in fiscal 2006 and $78.6 million, $78.2 million, and $47.4 million in fiscal 2007, 2008, and 2009, respectively. This revenue could continue to decrease due to reductions in demand, competition, alternative products, pricing changes in the marketplace and potential shortages of products which would adversely affect the Company’s revenue levels and its results of operations. In addition, strategic changes made by the Company’s management to invest greater resources in specialty display markets could result in reduced revenue for the Commercial segment. This segment absorbs a portion of the Company’s fixed costs. If this segment was discontinued or substantially reduced in size, it may not be possible to eliminate all of the fixed overhead costs that are allocated to the segment. If that were the case, a portion of the allocated fixed costs would have to be absorbed by the other segments, potentially adversely affecting the Company’s overall financial performance. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce the Company’s sales and increase its costs. The inability to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary to produce the Company’s displays could result in reduced or delayed sales. The Company obtains much of the material it uses 9 in the manufacture of its products from a limited number of suppliers, and it generally does not have long-term supply contracts with vendors. For some of this material the Company does not generally have a guaranteed alternative source of supply. In addition, given the Company’s cash management practices, vendors may not be willing to continue to ship materials on credit terms that are acceptable to the Company. As a result, the Company is subject to cost fluctuations, supply interruptions and difficulties in obtaining materials. The Company has in the past and may in the future face difficulties ensuring an adequate supply of quality high resolution glass used in its products. In the future the Company may also face difficulties ensuring an adequate supply of the rear-projection screens used in certain Command and Control products. The Company is continually engaged in efforts to address this risk area. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission recently issued an exclusion order banning the import of certain LCD panels incorporated by the Company in certain of its specialty display products. While the Company is currently working with the vendor of such LCD panels to provide for a continued supply of such materials, the inability of the Company to continue to import adequate supplies of such panels, or products including such panels, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. For most of the Company’s products, vendor lead times significantly exceed its customers’ required delivery time causing the Company to order to forecast rather than order based on actual demand. Competition in the market continues to reduce the period of time customers will wait for product delivery. Ordering raw material and building finished goods based on the Company’s forecast exposes the Company to numerous risks including its inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, holding excess and obsolete inventory or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. The Company has increased its reliance on Asian manufacturing companies for the manufacture of displays that it sells in all the markets that the Company serves. The Company also relies on certain other contract manufacturing operations in Asia, including those that produce circuit boards and other components, and those that manufacture and assemble certain of its products. The Company does not have long-term supply contracts with the Asian contract manufacturers on which it relies. If any of these Asian manufacturers were to terminate its arrangements with the Company, make decisions to terminate production of these products, or become unable to provide these displays to the Company on a timely basis, the Company could be unable to sell its products until alternative manufacturing arrangements are made. Furthermore, there is no assurance that the Company would be able to establish replacement manufacturing or assembly relationships on acceptable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company’s reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including, but not limited to: • lack of control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • unanticipated interruptions in transportation and logistics; • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • potential termination by vendors of agreements to supply materials to the Company, which would necessitate the Company’s contracting of alternative suppliers, which may not be possible; • risks associated with international commerce, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in duties and tariffs; and • trade policies and political and economic instability. Most of the contract manufacturers with which the Company does business are located in Asia which has experienced several earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, and interruptions to power supplies which resulted in business interruptions. The Company’s business could suffer significantly if the operations of vendors there or elsewhere were disrupted for extended periods of time. 10 The disposal or elimination of an operating segment could result in unabsorbed overhead costs that must be absorbed by the remaining segments. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 the Company disposed of its Medical segment and in the first quarter of 2009 the Company sold its digital signage software business. Each of the Company’s business segments absorbs a portion of the Company’s fixed costs, and it may not be possible to eliminate all of the fixed overhead costs that were previously allocated to the Medical segment or the digital signage software business. The portion of any fixed overhead costs that are not eliminated must be absorbed by the remaining segments, potentially adversely affecting the Company’s overall financial performance. Additionally, if the Company were to dispose of, eliminate or substantially reduce the size of any other segments in the future, it may not be possible to eliminate all associated fixed overhead costs, which would also have to be absorbed by the remaining segments. This could potentially adversely affect the Company’s overall financial performance in the future. The Company faces intense competition. Each of the Company’s markets is highly competitive, and the Company expects this to continue and even intensify. The Company believes that over time this competition will have the effect of reducing average selling prices of its products. Certain of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater name recognition and financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company does. There is no assurance that the Company will not face additional competitors or that the Company’s competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing products that would render its products obsolete or noncompetitive. To the extent the Company is unable to compete effectively against its competitors, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside its control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the Company’s effectiveness in designing new product solutions, including those incorporating new technologies; • the Company’s ability to anticipate and address the needs of its customers; • the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of the Company’s product solutions; • foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause competitors’ products to be priced significantly lower than the Company’s product solutions; • the quality of the Company’s customer services; • the effectiveness of the Company’s supply chain management; • the Company’s ability to identify new vertical markets and develop attractive products for them; • the Company’s ability to develop and maintain effective sales channels; • the rate at which customers incorporate the Company’s product solutions into their own products; and • product or technology introductions by the Company’s competitors. The Company’s continued success depends on the development of new products and technologies. Future results of operations will partly depend on the Company’s ability to continue to improve and market its existing products and to successfully develop and market new products. If the Company fails to do this its products or technology could become obsolete or noncompetitive. The Company has recently reduced its spending on research and development projects as it focuses on overall cost reductions. These reductions could impact the Company’s ability to improve its existing products and to successfully develop new products in the future. 11 New products and markets, by their nature, present significant risks and even if the Company is successful in developing new products, they typically result in pressure on gross margins during the initial phases as start-up activities are spread over lower initial sales volumes. The Company has experienced lower margins from new products and processes in the past, which have negatively impacted overall gross margins. In addition, customer relationships can be negatively impacted due to production problems and late delivery of shipments. Future operating results will depend on the Company’s ability to continue to provide new product solutions that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with competitors. The Company’s success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • Developing and/or deploying advances in technology; • innovative development of products for new markets; • efficient and cost-effective services; • timely completion of the design and manufacture of new product solutions; and • adequately protecting the Company’s proprietary property. The Company faces risks associated with international operations. The Company’s manufacturing, sales and distribution operations in Europe and Asia create a number of logistical and communications challenges. The Company’s international operations also expose the Company to various economic, political and other risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • management of a multi-national organization; • compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • employment and severance issues; • overlap of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • employee turnover or labor unrest; • lack of developed infrastructure; • difficulties protecting intellectual property; • risks associated with outbreaks of infectious diseases; • the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political or economic instability in certain parts of the world; • effects of doing business in currencies other than the Company’s functional currency; and • effects of foreign currency fluctuations on overall financial results. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, limitations on imports or exports, changes in environmental standards or regulations, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a materially adverse effect. Any actions by the Company’s host countries to curtail or reverse policies that encourage foreign investment or foreign trade also could adversely affect its operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of the Company’s services to its U.S. customers. 12 Future viability of the manufacturing facility located in Espoo, Finland is based on continued demand for EL products. The majority of the products manufactured at the Company’s facility located in Espoo, Finland are based on EL technology. If demand for EL technology-based products diminishes significantly in the future, it could become necessary to cease manufacturing operations at this facility, which would likely result in an impairment loss on the associated property, plant and equipment, and restructuring charges related to employee severance. The Company experienced lower demand for EL products in 2009 as compared to 2008. The decline in volumes resulted in unabsorbed manufacturing overhead, which negatively impacted the Company’s results of operations. Variability of customer requirements or losses of key customers may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround and respond to ever-shorter lead times, while at the same time meet its customers’ product specifications and quality expectations. A variety of conditions, including bankruptcy and other conditions both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for their products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. These actions by a significant customer or by a set of customers could adversely affect the Company’s business. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which can strain the Company’s resources and reduce margins. The Company may lack sufficient capacity at any given time to meet customers’ demands. Commercial and Medical products sold to one customer comprised 11%, and 11% of total consolidated sales in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales to this customer were less than 10% in fiscal 2009. Sales to this customer, if lost, could have a material, adverse impact on the results of operations. If accounts receivable from a significant customer or set of customers became uncollectible, a resulting charge could have a material, adverse effect on operations, although the Company does maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company may lose key licensors, sales representatives, foundries, licensees, vendors, other business partners and employees due to uncertainties regarding the future results of Planar or the worldwide economic condition, which could seriously harm Planar. Sales representatives, vendors, resellers, distributors, and others doing business with the Company may experience uncertainty about their future role with the Company, may elect not to continue doing business with Planar, may seek to modify the terms under which they do business in ways that are less attractive, more costly, or otherwise damaging to the business of Planar, or may declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations. Loss of relationships with these business partners could adversely affect Planar’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Similarly, the Company’s employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with the Company to the extent that its operations are unsuccessful or its strategies are changed significantly. This may adversely affect Planar’s ability to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel. The loss of a significant group of key technical personnel would seriously harm the product development efforts of Planar. The loss of key sales personnel could cause the Company to lose relationships with existing customers, which could cause a decline in the sales of the Company’s products. The Company does not have long-term purchase commitments from its customers. The Company’s business is generally characterized by short-term purchase orders and contracts which do not require that purchases be made. The Company typically plans its production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand which rely in part on nonbinding forecasts provided by its customers. As a result, the Company’s backlog generally does not exceed three months, which makes forecasting its sales difficult. Inaccuracies in the Company’s forecast as a result of changes in customer demand or otherwise may result in its inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, the Company holding excess and 13 obsolete inventory or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. The failure to obtain anticipated orders and deferrals or cancellations of purchase commitments because of changes in customer requirements, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has experienced such problems in the past and may experience such problems in the future. Economic or industry factors could result in portions of the Company’s inventory becoming obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. The Company is exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in write-offs of inventory. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological and regulatory changes in the Company’s markets, the Company’s ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, forecasting errors, new product introductions, quality issues with key suppliers, product phase-outs, future customer service and repair requirements, and the availability of key components from the Company’s suppliers. Additionally, while the Company does not generally enter into long-term purchasing commitments with its suppliers, there are certain Home Theater suppliers with which the Company has long-term purchasing commitments. These commitments could require the Company to purchase inventory it considers obsolete. The Company must continue to add value to its portfolio of offerings. Traditional display components are subject to increasing competition to the point of commodification. In addition, advances in core LCD technology makes standard displays effective in an increasing breadth of applications. The Company must add additional value to its products in software and services for which customers are willing to pay. These areas have not been a significant part of the Company’s business in the past and it may not execute well in the future. Failure to do so could adversely affect the Company’s revenue levels and its results of operations. The Company must protect its intellectual property, and others could infringe on or misappropriate its rights. The Company believes that its continued success partly depends on protecting its proprietary technology. The Company relies on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its intellectual property. The Company seeks to protect some of its technology under trade secret laws, which afford only limited protection. The Company faces risks associated with its intellectual property, including, but not limited to, the following: • pending patent and copyright applications may not be issued; • patent and copyright applications are filed only in a limited number of countries; • intellectual property laws may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights; • others may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patent or copyright issued to the Company; • rights granted under patents or copyrights issued to the Company may not provide competitive advantages to the Company; • unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary despite its efforts to protect its proprietary rights; and • others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to the Company. The Company may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect its intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Litigation can be very expensive and can distract management’s time and attention, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation. Others could claim that the Company is infringing their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the event of an allegation that the Company is infringing on another’s rights, it may not be able to obtain licenses on 14 commercially reasonable terms from that party, if at all, or that party may commence litigation against the Company. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or the institution of litigation arising out of such claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, a reseller of the Company’s commercial products has recently notified the Company that a third party has demanded such reseller license certain technology in order to sell the Company’s products. In addition, the Company has been named in a lawsuit (among many other defendants) alleging infringement of a U.S. patent relating to stands for multiple displays. The Company is evaluating these claims and will vigorously defend itself against the assertion of any liability. While the Company would, in each instance, seek indemnification from the manufacturer of such products if it were found to be liable, a determination of liability against the Company could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. During the Company’s four most recently completed fiscal quarters, the closing price of the Company’s stock ranged from $0.36 to $3.22. The market price of the Company’s common stock in the future is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • variations in the Company’s operating results and financial condition; • public announcements by the Company as to its expectations of future sales and net income; • actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new product developments by the Company or its competitors; • changes in analysts’ estimates of the Company’s financial performance; • general conditions in the electronics industry; and • worldwide economic and financial conditions. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may continue to adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company faces risks in connection with potential acquisitions. The Company has made several acquisitions during its history. Not all of these acquisitions have been successful. It is possible that the Company will make additional acquisitions in the future. The Company’s ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend in part on, among other things, the adequacy of its implementation plans, the ability of management to oversee and effectively operate the combined operations and the Company’s ability to achieve desired operational efficiencies. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies is often difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, the Company could lose key personnel from companies that it acquires, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, or fail to establish satisfactory internal controls. Any of these difficulties could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and decrease revenues. Furthermore, the Company might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact the Company’s financial results and increase its financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute the Company’s then existing shareholders’ ownership. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions, the Company could: • incur amortization expense related to intangible assets; • uncover previously unknown liabilities; or • incur large and immediate write-offs that would reduce net income. 15 Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisition may not be successful. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate the operations of any businesses that it may acquire in the future, its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. A significant slowdown in the demand for the products of the Company’s customers would adversely affect its business. In a portion of the Company’s Industrial segment, the Company designs and manufactures display solutions that its customers incorporate into their products. As a result, the Company’s success partly depends upon the market acceptance of its customers’ products. Accordingly, the Company must identify industries that have significant growth potential and establish relationships with customers who are successful in those industries. Failure to identify potential growth opportunities or establish relationships with customers in those industries would adversely affect the Company’s business. Dependence on the success of products of the Company’s customers exposes the Company to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • the Company’s ability to match its design and manufacturing capacity with customer demand and to maintain satisfactory delivery schedules; • customer order patterns, changes in order mix and the level and timing of orders that the Company can manufacture and ship in a quarter; and • the cyclical nature of the industries and markets served by the Company’s customers. These risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in internal controls or accounting guidance could cause volatility in the Company’s stock price. In the future, the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting will be audited by its independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”). Guidance regarding implementation and interpretation of the provisions of Section 404 continues to be issued by the standards-setting community. As a result of the ongoing interpretation of new guidance and the audit testing to be completed in the future, the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting may include an unidentified material weakness which would result in receiving an adverse opinion on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting from its independent registered public accounting firm. This could result in significant additional expenditures responding to the Section 404 internal control audit, heightened regulatory scrutiny and potentially an adverse effect to the price of the Company’s stock. In addition, due to increased regulatory scrutiny surrounding publicly traded companies, the possibility exists that a restatement of past financial results could be necessitated by an alternative interpretation of present accounting guidance and practice. Although management does not currently anticipate that this will occur, a potential result of such interpretation could be an adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. The Company must maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields and capacity. An inability to maintain sufficient levels of productivity or to satisfy delivery schedules at the Company’s manufacturing facilities would adversely affect its operating results. The design and manufacture of the Company’s EL displays involves highly complex processes that are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of personnel and equipment. At times the Company has experienced lower-than-anticipated manufacturing yields and lengthened delivery schedules and may experience such problems again in the future, particularly with respect to new products or technologies. Any such problems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 The Company cannot provide any assurance that current environmental laws and product quality specification standards, or any laws or standards enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental and various other regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. Some of the Company’s products use substances, such as lead, that are highly regulated or will not be allowed in certain jurisdictions in the future. The Company has redesigned certain products to eliminate such substances in its products. In addition, regulations have been enacted in certain jurisdictions which impose restrictions on waste disposal and electronics recycling obligations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable rules and regulations in connection with the use and disposal of such substances or other environmental or recycling legislation, it could be subject to significant liability or loss of future sales. EL products are manufactured at a single location, with no currently available substitute location. The Company’s EL products, which are based on proprietary technology, are produced in its manufacturing facility located in Espoo, Finland. Because the EL technology and manufacturing process is proprietary and unique, there exists no alternative location where it may be produced, either by the Company, or by another manufacturer. As such, loss of or damage to the manufacturing facility, or attrition in the facility’s skilled workforce, could cause a disruption in the manufacturing of the EL products, which compose a significant portion of the Company’s sales. Additionally, there are many fixed costs associated with such a manufacturing facility. If revenue levels were to decrease or other problems were encountered, this could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 