Item 1A. Risk Factors The following issues, risks, and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in evaluating the Company’s future financial performance and prospects for growth. The Company’s operating results can fluctuate significantly. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of commitments from the Company’s customers, other factors can contribute to significant periodic fluctuations in its results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the receipt and timing of orders and the timing of receipt of components and products from vendors and the timing of delivery of orders; • the inability to adjust expense levels or delays in adjusting expense levels, in either case in response to lower than expected revenues or gross margins; • the volume of orders relative to the Company’s capacity; • product introductions and market acceptance of new products or new generations of products; • evolution in the lifecycles of customers’ products; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • variations in revenue and gross margins relating to the mix of products available for sale and the mix of products sold from period to period; • availability of sufficient quantities of the components of the Company’s products on a timely basis or at all; • variation in operating expenses; • expenses arising from the vesting of restricted stock based upon achievement of certain performance measures; • pricing and availability of competitive products and services; • general economic conditions and changes—whether or not anticipated—in economic conditions; and • the ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, which could be limited by any Company indebtedness and the covenants of the Company’s existing credit facility. Accordingly, the results of any past periods should not be relied upon as an indication of the Company’s future performance. It is possible that, in some future period, the Company’s operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts and/or investors. If this occurs, the Company’s stock price may decrease. 6 The Company faces intense competition. Each of the markets served by the Company is highly competitive, and the Company expects this to continue and even intensify. The Company believes that over time this competition will have the effect of reducing average selling prices of its products. Certain of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater name recognition and financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than does the Company. There is no assurance that the Company will not face additional competitors or that the Company’s competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing products that would render the Company’s products obsolete or noncompetitive. To the extent the Company is unable to compete effectively, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside its control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the Company’s ability to anticipate and address the needs of its customers; • the Company’s ability to develop innovative, new products and technologies and the extent to which such technologies can be protected as proprietary to the Company; • the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of the Company’s product solutions; • foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause competitors’ products to be priced significantly lower than the Company’s product solutions; • the quality of the Company’s customer services; • the effectiveness of the Company’s supply chain management; • the Company’s ability to identify new markets and develop attractive products to address the needs of such markets; • the Company’s ability to develop and maintain effective and financially viable sales channels; • the rate at which customers incorporate the Company’s product solutions into their own products; and • product or technology introductions by the Company’s competitors. The Company’s success depends on the development of new products and technologies. Future results of operations will partly depend on the Company’s ability to improve and successfully market its existing products, while also successfully developing and marketing new products and developing new markets for existing products and technologies. If the Company fails to do this, its products or technologies could become obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, if the Company were unable to successfully execute its transition from existing products to new offerings or technologies, it could result in the Company holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the past, the Company has reduced its spending on research and development projects as a part of overall cost reductions. The Company may be required to reduce research and development expenditures in future periods as a part of cost reduction programs. These reductions could impact the Company’s ability to improve its existing products and to successfully develop new products. The Company may have challenges with new products, markets, and customers. New products and markets, by their nature, present significant risks and even if the Company is successful in developing new products, they typically result in pressure on gross margins during the initial phases as start-up activities are spread over lower initial sales volumes. The Company has experienced lower margins from new products and processes in the past, which have negatively impacted overall gross margins. In addition, customer relationships can be negatively impacted due to production and product performance problems and late delivery of shipments. Future operating results will depend on the Company’s ability to continue to provide new product 7 solutions that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with competitors. The Company’s success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • developing and/or deploying advances in technology; • developing innovative products for new markets; • offering efficient and cost-effective services; • timely completing the design and manufacture of new product solutions; and • developing proprietary technology positions and adequately protecting the Company’s proprietary property. The Company must continue to add value to its portfolio of offerings. Traditional display components are subject to increasing competition to the point of commoditization. In addition, advances in LCD technology make standard displays effective in an increasing breadth of applications. An increasing proportion of the Company’s business is based on commercially available components rather than proprietary technology. The Company must add additional value to its products and services for which customers are willing to pay. The Company may not be successful at developing products that add sufficient value beyond commodity products and failure to do so could adversely affect the Company’s revenue levels, margins, and its results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s reliance on third parties for its products creates risks over control of timing, quality and delivery of products. The Company relies on third party manufacturers or suppliers for substantially all of its products and product components. The Company does not have sufficient market power to exercise significant influence over its suppliers, some of whom are substantially larger than the Company and most of whom are located in Asia. The Company’s reliance on these third parties involves risks, including, but not limited to the following: • lack of control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • unanticipated interruptions in transportation and logistics; • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • potential termination by suppliers of agreements to supply materials to the Company, which would necessitate the Company’s contracting of alternative suppliers, which may not be possible; • risks associated with international commerce, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in duties and tariffs; and • trade policies and political and economic instability. The Company’s supply of products and profitability can be adversely affected by each of these risks. The Company’s dependence on a limited number of key suppliers in foreign countries could result in delayed or more costly products. The Company obtains much of the material it uses in the manufacture of its products from a limited number of suppliers and in some cases from a single or sole source supplier. It generally does not have long-term supply contracts and the Company does not generally have a guaranteed alternative source of supply. Any one of its suppliers could, among other things: • encounter constraints in its supply chain, for example due to the unavailability of certain natural resources used in the manufacturing process; 8 • encounter a natural disaster or other physical act disrupting supply or transportation; • be unwilling to extend the Company credit to purchase supplies on terms acceptable to the Company; • be subject to foreign or other local regulations or trade policies applicable to sales of components to the Company; • choose to prioritize another more significant customer over the Company in periods of high demand; • discontinue manufacturing the products the Company needs; or • fail to maintain suitable manufacturing facilities, train manufacturing employees, manage its supply chain effectively, manufacture a quality product, or provide spare parts in support of the Company’s warranty and customer service obligations. Examples of these risks include, without limitation: • Asia experiencing several earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, and interruptions to power supplies, resulting in business interruptions. In particular, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan caused some of the Company’s suppliers and some of the vendors of the Company’s suppliers to halt, delay or reduce production of displays, display components and other materials used in the Company’s products; • in fiscal 2010 the U.S. International Trade Commission issuing an exclusion order banning the import of certain LCD panels incorporated by the Company into certain of its specialty display products (this matter was resolved); and • certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requiring reports on “conflict minerals”, possibly resulting in increased costs or constrained supply as contract manufacturers attempt to assess and possibly avoid the purchase of conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Any of these risks could result in, among other things, the Company having: • the inability to timely obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary to produce the Company’s displays and products to meet customer demand, resulting in reduced, delayed or cancelled sales and the loss of customers; • an increase in the costs for supplies and components, resulting in decreased margins and profits; • excess or obsolete inventory, because of a failure to timely obtain all of the components for a product, resulting in write-offs and additional expenditures; and • poor quality components, resulting in increased costs for replacements and returns, cancellation of orders and loss of customers. Any significant interruption in the supply of displays, components and contract manufacturing capacity necessary to produce and sell the Company’s products would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Continued customer demands to shorten delivery times along with supplier constraints in meeting lead time schedules could result in the Company not meeting customer demands and excess or obsolete inventory. The Company is subject to supply lead times that can vary considerably depending on capacity fluctuations and other manufacturing constraints of the Company’s suppliers. These lead times can be significant when suppliers operate with diminished capacity or experience other restrictions that limit their ability to produce products in a timely manner. For most of the Company’s products, supplier lead times significantly exceed the Company’s customers’ required delivery time, causing the Company to order based on a forecast rather than order based on actual demand. Competition for the Company’s products continues to reduce the period of time customers will wait for product delivery. Ordering raw materials and building finished goods based on the Company’s forecast rather than actual demand exposes the Company to numerous risks including its inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, holding excess and obsolete inventory or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. The risks inherent in the Company’s operations could be heightened by general economic weakness and potential lack of credit availability. In recent years, disruptions in global credit and financial markets and the general decline in worldwide economic conditions have resulted in diminished liquidity and credit availability, a decline in consumer confidence, increased unemployment, a decline in economic growth and uncertainty about economic stability. These conditions make it extremely difficult for the Company and its customers and vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In this time of economic uncertainties, the Company’s financial performance and prospects for growth are subject to heightened risks including, but not limited to, the risk that the poor economic conditions and uncertainties in the credit and financial markets could adversely affect the amount, timing and stability of the demand for the Company’s products, the financial strength of the Company’s customers and vendors and their ability or willingness to do business with the Company, the ability of the Company’s customers and/or vendors to fulfill their obligations to the Company, and the ability of the Company’s customers and/or vendors to obtain credit in amounts and on terms acceptable to them. Each of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has taken a number of measures to reduce costs in response to the worldwide economic downturn over the past several years. However, in connection with the execution of the growth strategy adopted during fiscal 2011 the Company has refocused sales and marketing resources to better position it for sales growth. If the economic recovery were to slow or cease and dip back into recession, or if customer demand for the Company’s products were to otherwise not improve or slow down, the Company might be unable to adjust expense levels rapidly enough in response to falling demand or adequately reduce expenses without changing the way in which it operates in a manner that has adverse consequences. If revenues were to decrease further and the Company was unable to adequately reduce expense levels, it might incur significant losses that could potentially adversely affect the Company’s overall financial performance and the market price of the Company’s common stock. A significant slowdown in the demand for the products of certain of the Company’s customers would adversely affect its business. The Company designs and manufactures custom display solutions that its customers incorporate into their products. As a result, the Company’s success partly depends upon the market acceptance of its customers’ products. Accordingly, the Company must identify industries that have significant growth potential and establish relationships with customers who are successful in those industries. Failure to identify potential growth opportunities or establish relationships with customers who are successful in those industries would adversely affect the Company’s business. Dependence on the success of products of the Company’s customers exposes the Company to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • the Company’s ability to match its design and manufacturing capacity with customer demand and to maintain satisfactory delivery schedules; 10 • customer order patterns, changes in order mix and the level and timing of orders that the Company can manufacture and ship in a quarter; and • the cyclical nature of the industries and markets served by the Company’s customers. These risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces risks associated with operations outside the United States. The Company’s manufacturing, sales and distribution operations in Europe and Asia create a number of logistical, systems and communications challenges. The Company’s international operations also expose the Company to various economic, political and other risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • management of a multi-national organization; • compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • employment and severance issues; • complexity of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • employee turnover or labor unrest; • lack of developed infrastructure; • difficulties protecting intellectual property; • difficulties repatriating funds without adverse tax effects; • risks associated with outbreaks of infectious diseases; • burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political or economic instability in certain parts of the world; • effects of doing business in currencies other than the Company’s functional currency; • effects of doing business in countries where the local currency is pegged to the currency of another country (For instance the exchange rate of the Chinese RMB to the U.S. Dollar is closely monitored by the Chinese government and there have been recent increases in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. Dollar. The Company purchases a significant amount of goods from Chinese suppliers and, while those purchases are typically denominated in U.S. Dollars, increases in the RMB relative to the U.S. Dollar would tend to cause the cost of such goods to increase); and • effects of foreign currency fluctuations on overall financial results. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, limitations on imports or exports, changes in environmental standards or regulations, or the expropriation of private enterprises also could have a materially adverse effect. Any actions by the Company’s host countries to curtail or reverse policies that encourage foreign investment or foreign trade also could adversely affect its operating results. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of the Company’s services to its U.S. customers. 11 The Company may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success depends in part upon the services of its executive officers and key personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the Company’s inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could inhibit the Company’s ability to operate and grow its business and otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position and results of operations. The Company has previously had to, and may in the future have to, impose salary freezes and reductions in force in an effort to maintain its financial position. These actions may have an adverse effect on employee loyalty and may make it more difficult for the Company to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the businesses in which the Company competes is intense, and the Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The Company may incur significant costs in its efforts to recruit and retain key personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may encounter difficulties in the implementation or operation of its new enterprise resource planning system. During the third fiscal quarter of 2013, the Company began operating a new enterprise resource planning system (“ERP system”) that is integral to the Company’s ability to accurately and efficiently maintain its books and records, record its materials purchase transactions, manufacturing activities, account for and manage inventory and product sale transactions, provide critical business information to management, and prepare its financial statements. The development and implementation of the new ERP system has caused, and will continue to cause, the Company to incur costs, expend employee (including Company management) time and attention and otherwise burden the Company’s internal resources, and could detract from the Company’s various on-going business objectives. The implementation and early-stage operation of the new ERP system is a complex process that is subject to a variety of difficulties and uncertainties. Any difficulties the Company encounters with the successful operation of the new ERP system could damage the effectiveness of the Company’s business processes and controls and could adversely impact the Company’s ability to accurately and effectively forecast and manage sales demand, manage the Company’s supply chain, identify and implement actions that improve the Company’s operational effectiveness, and report financial and management information on an accurate and timely basis, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Future financial results of Planar could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates. While the Company is for the most part naturally hedged due to approximately equal foreign denominated sales and expenses, the Company is exposed to certain risks relating to U.S. Dollar denominated assets primarily held in Europe. The Company does not hedge foreign currency risk through forward exchange contracts. As a result the Company may experience non-cash GAAP income statement losses due to changes in the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro exchange rate. Future indebtedness could reduce the Company’s ability to use cash flow for purposes other than debt service or otherwise restrict the Company’s activities. If the Company incurred a significant amount of debt under its current secured credit facility or otherwise, the leverage would reduce the Company’s ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. High leverage would also limit flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and increases vulnerability to a downturn in the business and general adverse economic and industry conditions. Substantially all of the assets of the Company are pledged as security for the performance of the Company’s obligations under its credit agreement, which includes certain financial covenants. The Company may not generate sufficient profitability to meet these covenants. If the Company fails to comply with applicable covenants under its debt agreements, the Company may be unable to borrow amounts under the agreements or may have to repay all amounts outstanding at that time, which, in turn could lead to the Company’s inability to pay its debts and the loss of control of its assets. If 12 the Company is unable to borrow amounts under the agreements or is unable to extend or renew the agreements upon expiration, the Company may need to pursue other sources of financing. Other sources of credit may not be available at all or on terms that are acceptable to the Company. If credit is not available to fully satisfy the Company’s liquidity needs, the Company may need to dispose of additional assets. In addition, the Company’s position on indefinite reinvestment of unremitted earnings from foreign operations may limit its ability to transfer cash between or across foreign and U.S. operations as may be required to service its debt. The Company may experience losses selling certain desktop monitors or other low margin products. The market for the Company’s desktop monitor products is highly competitive and subject to rapid changes in prices and demand. The Company’s failure to successfully manage inventory levels or quickly respond to changes in pricing, technology or consumer tastes and demand could result in lower than expected revenue, lower gross margin and excess, obsolete and devalued inventories of its desktop monitor products which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Past market conditions have been characterized by rapid declines in end user pricing. Such declines caused the Company’s inventory to lose value and triggered price protection obligations for channel inventory. Supply and pricing of LCD panels has been volatile in the past and may be in the future. This volatility, combined with lead times of five to eight weeks, may cause the Company to pay too much for products or suffer inadequate product supply. The Company does not have long-term agreements with its resellers, who generally may terminate their relationship with the Company with little or no notice. Such action by the Company’s resellers could substantially harm the Company’s operating results. In addition, strategic changes made by the Company’s management to invest greater resources in specialty display markets could result in reduced revenue from desktop monitors. The disposal or elimination of a business or product line could result in unabsorbed overhead costs that must be absorbed by the Company’s remaining product lines. From time to time the Company disposes of product lines. For instance, in the first fiscal quarter of 2013 the Company sold the assets and liabilities related to the EL product line. If the Company were to discontinue or substantially reduce its efforts to sell products to any of its targeted end-markets, or to discontinue certain businesses or product lines, for the purpose of reducing costs or losses or otherwise, it may not be possible to eliminate all fixed overhead costs associated with those products. Not eliminating all overhead costs in these circumstances could cause a decrease in the Company’s margins for its remaining products. The recent sale of the Company’s EL display assets and liabilities involves significant risks. In November 2012, the Company completed a transaction in which Beneq Products Oy (“Beneq”) purchased from the Company substantially all of the assets, and assumed certain liabilities, used or necessary in the Company’s EL display business (the “EL Transaction”). The completion of the EL Transaction presents certain significant risks to the Company, including but not limited to: • As a result of the EL Transaction with Beneq, the Company may incur certain future liabilities, costs and expenses, including claims by Beneq for (i) losses incurred by Beneq as a result of breaches of representations and warranties given by the Company, or (ii) liabilities relating to the EL display business that the Company retained as part of the EL Transaction. Any material liabilities, costs or expenses incurred by the Company as a result of an indemnification claim by Beneq could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. • In the EL Transaction, Beneq paid a portion of the purchase price in promissory notes payable over a term of five years. A default by Beneq on the payments due under the promissory notes could materially and adversely affect the assets and financial condition of the Company. 13 Variability of customer requirements or losses of key customers may adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround and respond to ever-shorter lead times, while at the same time meet its customers’ product specifications and quality expectations. A variety of conditions, including bankruptcy and other conditions both specific to individual customers and generally affecting the demand for their products, may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders. These actions by a significant customer or by a set of customers could adversely affect the Company’s business. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which can strain the Company’s resources and reduce margins. The Company may lack sufficient capacity at any given time to meet customers’ demands. Sales to a significant customer, if lost, could have a material, adverse impact on the results of operations. If accounts receivable from a significant customer or set of customers became uncollectible, a resulting charge could have a material adverse effect on operations. The Company may lose key licensors, sales representatives, foundries, licensees, vendors, other business partners and employees due to uncertainties regarding the future results of Planar or the worldwide economic condition, which could seriously harm Planar. Sales representatives, vendors, resellers, distributors, and others doing business with the Company may experience uncertainty about their future role with the Company, may elect not to continue doing business with Planar, may seek to modify the terms under which they do business in ways that are less attractive, more costly, or otherwise damaging to the business of Planar, or may declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations. Loss of relationships with these business partners could adversely affect Planar’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Similarly, the Company’s employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with the Company to the extent that its operations are unsuccessful or its strategies are changed significantly. This may adversely affect Planar’s ability to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel. The loss of a significant group of key technical personnel would seriously harm the product development efforts of Planar. The loss of key sales personnel could cause the Company to lose relationships with existing customers, which could cause a decline in the sales of the Company’s products. The Company does not have long-term purchase commitments from its customers. The Company’s business is generally characterized by short-term purchase orders and contracts that specify certain sales terms but do not require that purchases be made. The Company typically plans its production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand which rely in part on nonbinding forecasts provided by its customers. As a result, the Company’s backlog generally does not exceed three months, which makes forecasting its sales difficult. Inaccuracies in the Company’s forecast as a result of changes in customer demand or otherwise may result in its inability to service customer demand in an acceptable timeframe, the Company holding excess and obsolete inventory, or having unabsorbed manufacturing overhead. The failure to obtain anticipated orders and deferrals or cancellations of purchase commitments because of changes in customer requirements, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has experienced such problems in the past and may experience such problems in the future. The Company must protect its intellectual property, and others could infringe on or misappropriate its rights. The Company believes that its business success depends, in part, on developing proprietary intellectual property and protecting its proprietary technology. The Company relies on a combination of patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, confidentially procedures and contractual provisions to protect its intellectual property. The Company seeks to protect some of its technology under trade secret laws, which afford only limited protection. The Company faces risks associated with its intellectual property, including, but not limited to, the following: • pending patent and copyright applications may not be issued or may be significantly limited in scope prior to issuance; 14 • patent and copyright applications are filed only in a limited number of countries; • intellectual property laws may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights; • others may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patent or copyright issued to the Company; • rights granted under patents or copyrights issued to the Company may not provide competitive advantages to the Company; • unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary despite its efforts to protect its proprietary rights; and • others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to the Company. The Company has had to, and may in the future have to, defend against infringement claims. In recent fiscal years, the Company has been made party to lawsuits (among many other defendants) alleging infringement of certain United States patents relating to certain products marketed and sold by the Company, including stands for multiple displays, the Company’s Indisys image processing products and certain projector products. While each of these matters has been resolved, litigation can be very expensive and can divert management’s time and attention, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation. In the event of an allegation that the Company is infringing on another’s rights, the Company may seek to obtain a license to the intellectual property at issue or refuse the claim. The Company may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and the party alleging infringement may commence litigation against the Company. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights or the institution of litigation arising out of such claims could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, a technology licensing company has asserted that various of the Company’s products require a license under certain patents held by such party. The Company will vigorously defend itself against the assertion of any future claims for infringement and will, as a matter of course, seek indemnification from third-party suppliers, where available. While the Company would, in each instance, seek indemnification from the manufacturer of an accused product if it were found to be liable, a determination of liability against the Company could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. During the Company’s four most recently completed fiscal quarters, the closing price of the Company’s stock ranged from $1.14 to $2.33. The market price of the Company’s common stock in the future is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • variations in the Company’s operating results and financial condition; • variations in trading volumes of the Company’s stock; • public announcements by the Company as to its expectations of future sales and net income or loss; • actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new product developments by the Company or its competitors; • changes in analysts’ estimates of the Company’s financial performance; • general conditions in the electronics industry; and • worldwide economic and financial conditions. 15 In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may continue to adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company faces risks in connection with potential acquisitions. The Company has made several acquisitions during its history. Not all of these acquisitions have been successful. It is possible that the Company will make additional acquisitions in the future. The Company’s ability to effectively integrate any future acquisitions will depend on, among other things, the adequacy of its implementation plans, the ability of management to oversee and effectively operate the combined operations and the Company’s ability to achieve desired operational efficiencies. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies is often difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, the Company could lose key personnel from companies that it acquires, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, or fail to establish satisfactory internal controls. Any of these difficulties could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and decrease revenues. Furthermore, the Company might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact the Company’s financial results and increase its financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute the Company’s then existing shareholders’ ownership. In addition, in connection with any future acquisitions, the Company could: • incur amortization expense related to intangible assets; • uncover previously unknown liabilities; or • incur large and immediate write-offs that would reduce net income. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisition may not be successful. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate the operations of any businesses that it may acquire in the future, its business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes in internal controls or accounting guidance could cause volatility in the Company’s stock price. The Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are not currently required to be audited by its independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”). If, in future periods, the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are required to be audited by its independent registered public accounting firm significant additional expenditures could be incurred which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. Additionally, an audit by the independent public accounting firm could identify a material weakness which would result in the Company receiving an adverse opinion on its internal controls over financial reporting from its independent registered public accounting firm. This could result in additional expenditures responding to the Section 404 internal control audit, heightened regulatory scrutiny and potentially an adverse effect to the price of the Company’s stock. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current environmental laws and product quality specification standards, or any laws or standards enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental and various other regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. Some of the Company’s products use substances, such as lead, that are highly regulated or will not be allowed in certain jurisdictions in the future. The Company has redesigned certain products to eliminate such substances in its products. In addition, regulations have been enacted in certain jurisdictions which impose restrictions on waste disposal of electronic products and electronics recycling 16 obligations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable rules and regulations in connection with the use and disposal of such substances or other environmental or recycling legislation, it could be subject to significant liability or loss of future sales. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 