Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis Item 7a Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplemental Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 3 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Index to Exhibits 4 NORTECH SYSTEMS INCORPORATED FORM 10-K For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS We are a Minnesota corporation organized in December 1990, filing annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). Prior to December 1990, we operated as DSC Nortech, Inc., who filed a petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code during 1990. The business and assets of DSC Nortech, Inc. were transferred to us during 1990. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 340 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, who file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge through our Internet website (http://www.nortechsys.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Press Releases, and Current Reports on Form 8-K. GENERAL We are an EMS (Electronic Manufacturing Service) contract manufacturing company with our headquarters in Wayzata, Minnesota, a suburb of Minneapolis, Minnesota. We maintain manufacturing facilities in Minnesota including Bemidji, Fairmont, Blue Earth, Baxter, and Merrifield as well as Augusta, Wisconsin, and Monterrey, Mexico. On February 4, 2007, we acquired a manufacturing operation in Garner, Iowa. We manufacture wire harness and cable assemblies, electronic sub-assemblies, and printed circuit board assemblies. We provide value added services and technical support including design, testing, prototyping and supply chain management. The vast majority of our revenue is derived from products built to the customer’s design specifications. We provide a high degree of manufacturing expertise using statistical process controls to ensure product quality, total supply chain solution techniques and the systems necessary to effectively manage the business. This level of sophistication enables us to attract major original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and to expand and diversify our customer base. Our strategy is to develop a customer base across several markets to avoid the effects of fluctuations within a given industry. The markets we serve are Industrial Equipment, Medical, Military/Defense and Transportation. We believe the current growth and expansion trends for contract manufacturing and the EMS (Electronic Manufacturing Services) industry will continue both in the United States and overseas. OEM outsourcing will continue to escalate as more companies focus their investments 5 on marketing and development of their products and rely more on EMS providers for their production and supply chain requirements. ACQUISITIONS On February 4, 2007, we acquired the business assets of Suntron Corporation’s Mid-West Operation located in Garner, Iowa. This acquisition will strengthen our capabilities in printed circuit board assemblies and high level complete box build assemblies while opening new market segments in the agriculture and oil and gas industries On June 28, 2006, we acquired a 140,000 square foot building in Blue Earth, Minnesota from Telex Communications, Inc. This acquisition expanded our capacity allowing us to better meet the needs of the growing Military/Defense market. On June 23, 2004, we acquired all of the business assets of Zachariah and Lundbergh, Inc. (Z&L). This acquisition of assets allows for further expansion of our InterconOne brand of specialty cable and power supplies for use in industrial and medical grade video cameras and ancillary equipment. See Notes 4 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on these acquisitions. BUSINESS SEGMENT All of our operations fall under the Contract Manufacturing segment within the Electronic Manufacturing Services industry. We strategically direct production amongst our various manufacturing facilities based on a number of considerations to best meet our customers’ requirements. BUSINESS STRATEGY The Electronic Manufacturing Services industry continues to evolve into a dynamic, higher tech global electronics contract services industry. We continue to expand our capabilities to better meet these changing market requirements. Along with offering technical expertise in our quality processes, design, applications and testing, we are also increasing our focus on supplier-managed inventory services and the cost drivers throughout the supply chain. We continue to expand our international operations and partnerships to take advantage of lower-cost alternatives for our customers and to remain competitive in the marketplace when required. We continue to pursue acquisitions, mergers, and/or joint ventures of companies in the EMS industries to both remain competitive and grow our customer and revenue base. Our strategic objectives and our history have been based on both organic and acquired growth. Our quality systems and processes are based on ISO standards with all our domestic and Monterrey, Mexico facilities certified to the latest version of the ISO 9001 standards. We believe these certifications benefit our customer base and increase our chances of attracting new business opportunities. 6 We are committed to quality, cost effectiveness and responsiveness to customer requirements. To achieve these objectives we have invested in ROHS (lead free) processing, equipment, additional plant capacity, people, systems and we have adopted lean manufacturing and supply chain management techniques at our facilities. We are committed to continuous improvement in order to provide competitive and complete manufacturing service solutions to our customers. We will continue to maintain a diversified customer base, and expand into other capabilities and services when they fit our core competencies and strategic vision. MARKETING We concentrate our marketing efforts in the industrial equipment, medical, military/defense and transportation industries and with the recent acquisition of our Iowa circuit board operation, we enter into the agriculture and oil and gas markets. Our marketing strategy emphasizes the breadth of our manufacturing, supply chain and engineering services and reflects the complete turnkey solution for meeting our customers’ current and future requirements. Our emphasis continues to be on mature companies, which require a contract manufacturer with a high degree of manufacturing and quality sophistication, including statistical process control (SPC), statistical quality control (SQC), International Standards Organization (ISO), Military Specifications (Mill Spec) and Aerospace Systems 9100 (AS). We continue efforts to penetrate our existing customer base and expand new market opportunities in Mexico, Asia and Europe, in addition to participation in industry publications and selected trade shows. We target customers who value proven manufacturing performance, design and application engineering expertise and who value the flexibility to manage the supply chain of a high mix of product and service. We market our products and services through our in-house sales force and independent manufacturers’ representatives. SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF MATERIALS On occasion some of our components may be placed on a stringent allocation basis; however, due to the excess manufacturing capacity currently available at most component manufacturers, we do not anticipate any major material purchasing or availability problems occurring in the foreseeable future. PATENTS AND LICENSES We are not presently dependent on a proprietary product requiring licensing, patent, copyright or trademark protection. There are no revenues derived from a service-related business for which patents, licenses, copyrights and trademark protection are necessary for successful operations. COMPETITION The contract manufacturing EMS industry competitive makeup includes small closely held contract manufacturing companies, large global full-service contract manufacturers, company-owned in-house manufacturing facilities and foreign contract manufacturers. We do not believe that the small closely held operations pose a significant competitive threat in the markets and customers we serve, as they generally do not have the complete manufacturing services or capabilities required by our target customers. We believe the larger global full service and foreign manufacturers do provide a substantial competitive environment while the company-owned operations create an increasing opportunity as the trend of more outsourcing continues. 7 Technical support from foreign competition has improved greatly along with their ability to be more responsive to engineering and schedule changes. The willingness of foreign manufacturers to “stock” finished product at warehouse locations in the United States is another of their competitive advantages, however, their inability to react to engineering, product or schedule changes is a disadvantage and plays into our strength. To mitigate foreign competition, we maintain a contractual agreement allowing us to provide a China manufacturing solution and we operate a manufacturing operation in Mexico to support our customers with a “Low Cost” supply chain solution. BACKLOG Historically, our backlog has been running 60 to 90 days. However, because of the increased emphasis on just-in-time manufacturing (JIT), reduced lead times and repetitive scheduling, our historical backlog levels may not be indicative of future results due to customers rescheduling and canceling of orders. As of December 31, 2006 our 90 day backlog was approximately $19.5 million compared to approximately $24.9 million on December 31, 2005. We expect a major portion of the backlog will be realized as revenue during first quarter 2007. MAJOR CUSTOMERS Two divisions of General Electric, Co. (G.E.) combined account for 10% or more of our net sales during the past three years. G.E.’s Medical and Transportation Divisions together accounted for 17%, 17% and 15% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Accounts receivable from G.E.’s Medical and Transportation Divisions at December 31, 2006 and 2005 represented 14% and 12% of total accounts receivable, respectively. Additionally, Northrop Grumman Corp. accounted for 10% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Accounts receivable from Northrop Grumman at December 31, 2006 and 2005 represented 15% and 9% of total accounts receivable, respectively. Historically, we have not experienced significant losses on customer receivable collections in any particular industry or geographic area. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We perform research and development for customers on an as requested and program basis for development of conceptual engineering and design activities prior to manufacturing the products. We did not expend significant dollars in 2006, 2005 or 2004 on company-sponsored product research and development. ENVIRONMENTAL LAW COMPLIANCE We believe that our manufacturing facilities are currently operating under compliance with local, state, and federal environmental laws. We have incurred and plan to continue incurring, the necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. Any environmental-oriented equipment is capitalized and depreciated over a seven-year period. The annualized depreciation expense for this type of environmental equipment is insignificant. EMPLOYEES We have 911 full-time, 80 part-time and 17 temporary employees as of December 31, 2006. Manufacturing personnel, including direct, indirect support and sales functions, comprise 967 employees, while general administrative employees total 41. 8 FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES We have a leased manufacturing facility in Monterrey, Mexico with approximately $562,000 in long-term assets at December 31, 2006. Export sales represent 5% of consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the SEC, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. Such statements generally will be accompanied by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “possible,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” or other similar words that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Although we believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions, any or all of which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include, without limitation: · Volatility in the marketplace which may affect market supply and demand of our products; · Increased competition; · Changes in the reliability and efficiency of our operating facilities or those of third parties; · Risks related to availability of labor; · Increase in certain raw material costs such as copper · Commodity and Energy cost instability · General economic, financial and business conditions that could affect our financial condition and results of operations. The factors identified above are believed to be important factors (but not necessarily all of the important factors) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us. Discussion of these factors is also incorporated in Part I, item 1A, “Risk Factors”, and should be considered an integral part of Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed herein could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K are expressly qualified in their entirety by the forgoing cautionary statements. We undertake no obligations to update publicly any forward-looking statement (or its associated cautionary language) whether as a result of new information or future events. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating us as a company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial 9 condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We operate in a in the highly competitive EMS (Electronic Manufacturing Services) industry. We compete against many EMS companies. The larger global competitors have more resources and greater economics of scale. We also compete with OEM in-house operations that are continually evaluating manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with excess capacity, lower cost structures and availability of lower cost labor. The availability of excess manufacturing capacity of our competitors also creates competitive pressure on price and winning new business. We must continue to provide services, a quality product, be responsive and flexible to customers’ requirements for design and technical support schedule changes and deliver. Our lack of execution could have an adverse effect on our operations. A large percentage of our sales have been made to a small number of customers, and the loss of a major customer, if not replaced, would adversely affect us. We have several customers that are responsible for a significant portion of our net sales. General Electric Co.’s (G.E.) Medical and Transportation Divisions together accounted for 17%, 17% and 15% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, Northrop Grumman Corp. accounted for 10% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. If there is a loss of one or more major customers or a significant decline in sales to our major customers it could have an adverse effect on our results from operations. We will continue to expand our customer base through our in-house sales efforts and target our acquisitions to reduce the dependence. We are dependent on suppliers for electronic components and may experience shortages, cost premiums and shipment delays that would adversely affect our customers and us. We purchase raw materials, commodities and components for use in our production. Increased costs of these materials could have an adverse effect on our production costs if we are unable to pass along price increases or reduce the other cost of goods produced through cost improvement initiatives. Fuel and energy cost increases could also adversely affect our freight and operating costs. Due to customer specifications and requirements, we are dependent on suppliers to provide critical electronic components and materials for our operations that could result in shortages of some of the electronic components need for their production. Component shortages may result in expedited freight, overtime premium and increased component costs. In addition to the financial impact on operations from lost revenue and increased cost, there could potentially be harm to our customer relationships. Our customers cancel orders, change order quantity, timing and specifications and if not managed would have an adverse affect on inventory carrying costs. We do face through the normal course of business excess and obsolete inventory losses as a result of customer order changes, cancellations, product changes and contract termination that 10 could have an adverse effect on our operations. We estimate and reserve for any known or potential impact from these possibilities. The manufacture and sale of our products carries potential risk for product liability claims. We represent and warrant the goods and services we deliver are free from defects in material and workmanship for one year (1) from ship date. Unless otherwise agreed to, workmanship shall be in accordance with IPC and ANSI/J- Standards such as IPC-A-610, class 2, IPC—A-620, class 2, ANSI/J-STD001, class 2, C-20. We make no other guarantees or warranties, expressed or implied, of any nature whatsoever as to the goods including without limitation, warranties to merchantability, fit for a particular purpose or non-infringement of patent or the like unless agreed upon in writing. If a product liability claim results in our being liable and the amount is in excess of our insurance coverage or there is no insurance coverage for the claim then it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial position. We depend heavily on our people and may from time to time have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. Our operations depend upon the continued contributions of our key management, marketing, technical, financial, accounting, product development engineers, sales people and operational personnel. We also believe that our continued success will depend upon our ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled managerial and technical resources within the highly competition EMS industry. Not being able to attract or retain these employees could have a material adverse effect on revenues and earnings. Operating in foreign countries expose our operations to risks that could adversely affect our operating results. We’ve operated a manufacturing facility in Mexico since 2002 and we may in the future expand into other foreign countries. The benefits projected for our Mexico operation have taken more time then expected to integrate into our marketing strategies and our operation there is subject to risks, which could adversely impact our financial results such as economic or political volatility, employee turnover, staffing, managing personnel in diverse culture, labor instability, transportation delays, and foreign currency flux. Non-compliance with environmental laws may result in restrictions and adverse effects on operations. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; as well as analogous state and foreign laws and compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because of our manufacturing processes and materials. It is possible we may be subject to potential financial liability for costs associated with the investigation and remediation at our sites and may have an adverse effect on operations. We have not incurred significant costs related to compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and we believe that our operations comply with all applicable environmental laws. 11 Environmental laws could also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violation. We operate in environmentally sensitive locations and are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business, and environmental groups. Changes or restrictions on discharge limits; emissions levels; or material storage, handling, or disposal might require a high level of unplanned capital investment or relocation. It is possible that environmental compliance costs and penalties from new or existing regulations may harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be subject to risks associated with our acquisitions, and the risks could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our strategy is to grow our business organically and through acquisitions, alliances and joint venture arrangements. We will continue to pursue and acquire additional businesses in the EMS industry that fit our long-term objectives for growth and profitability. The success of our acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate the new operations with the existing operations. In June 2002, we acquired Manufacturing Assembly Solutions of Monterrey, Inc. (MAS), a Mexican corporation, located in Monterrey, Mexico. The benefits of this acquisition has taken more time then expected to integrate into our marketing strategies. In February 2007, we purchased a printed circuit board operation in Garner, Iowa with the expectation that the results will be accretive to the overall business. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility we may be unable to secure additional financing and repayment obligations on our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated. Our revolving credit facility and debt agreements contain financial and operating covenants with which we must comply. As of December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with each of these covenants. However, among other factors, our continued compliance with these covenants is dependent on our financial results, which are subject to fluctuation as described elsewhere in these risk factors. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the future or if our lender does not agree to waive any future non-compliance, we may be unable to borrow funds and any outstanding indebtedness could become immediately due and payable, which could materially harm our business. Our business may be impacted by natural disasters. Tornadoes, blizzards and other natural disasters could negatively impact our business and supply chain. In countries, which we rely on for operations and materials, such as Mexico, China and Thailand, potential natural disasters could disrupt our manufacturing operations; reduce demand for our customers’ products and increase supply chain costs. 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable ITEM 