ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. An investment in our shares is highly speculative and involves a significant degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report or in any material accompanying this report. The following summary of risk factors does not purport to be a complete explanation of the risks involved in our business. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED LOSSES IN THE PAST. We had experienced significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operating activities in the past, including the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. If our sales do not continue to improve and operating expenses are not reduced and monitored, we may incur additional significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations. 7 WE RELY ON A SINGLE SOURCE FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF OUR PRODUCTS. We rely solely on C-Motech Co., Ltd., a company located in South Korea, to design, manufacture and supply our products, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties outside our control. Our agreement with C-Motech is renewable annually, and we cannot be certain it will be renewed each year. Thus, we rely solely on C-Motech to manufacture and deliver all our products. If we were unable to purchase products from C-Motech for any reason, we would be forced to seek an alternative source of supply, which may not be available. Any significant changes in C-Motech, such as a change in ownership, operations or financial status may cause difficulties in our ability to deliver products to customers on a timely basis. WE OPERATE IN AN INTENSIVELY COMPETITIVE MARKET. The wireless broadband data access market is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. To survive and be competitive, we will need to continuously invest in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. Increased competition could result in price reductions and smaller customer orders. Our failure to compete effectively could seriously impair our business. WE OPERATE IN THE HIGH-RISK TELECOM SECTOR. We are in a volatile industry. In addition, our revenue model is evolving and relies substantially on the assumption that we will be able to successfully complete the development and sales of our products and services in the marketplace. Our prospects must be considered in the light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development and marketing. In order to be successful in the market we must, among other things: o Complete development and introduction of functional and attractive products and services; o Attract and maintain customer loyalty; o Establish and increase awareness of our brand; o Provide desirable products and services to customers at attractive prices; o Establish and maintain strategic relationships with partners and affiliates; o Rapidly respond to competitive and technological developments; o Build operations and customer service infrastructure to support our business; and o Attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve these goals, and our failure to achieve them could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funding if our financial resources are depleted. We expect that revenues and operating results will fluctuate in the future. If our efforts are unsuccessful or other unexpected events occur, purchasers of our shares could lose their entire investment. WE OPERATE IN A FIELD WITH RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGY. Since our products and services are new, we cannot be certain that these products and services will function as anticipated or be desirable to our intended markets. Our current or future products and services may fail to function properly, and if our products and services do not achieve and sustain market acceptance, our business, results of operations and profitability may suffer. If we are unable to predict and comply with evolving wireless standards, our ability to introduce and sell new products will be adversely affected. If we fail to develop and introduce products on time, we may lose customers and potential product orders. WE DEPEND ON THE DEMAND FOR WIRELESS NETWORK CAPACITY. The demand for our products is completely dependent on the demand for broadband wireless access to networks. If wireless operators do not deliver acceptable wireless service, our product sales may dramatically decline. Thus, if wireless operators experience financial or network difficulties, it will likely reduce demand for our products. WE DEPEND ON COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS. The development and commercialization of our products and services depend in large part upon our ability to selectively enter into and maintain collaborative arrangements with developers, distributors, service providers, network systems providers, core wireless communications technology providers and manufacturers, among others. 8 THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR MATERIAL CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSLY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY, AND THEREFORE SHAREHOLDER VALUE. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. For the year ended June 30, 2008, three customers represented approximately 84.6% of our revenue. If any of these customers reduce their business with us or suffer from business failure, our revenues and profitability could decline, perhaps materially. OUR PRODUCT DELIVERIES ARE SUBJECT TO LONG LEAD TIMES. Due to our limited capital resources, we are experiencing long-lead times to ship products to our customers, often in excess of 45 days. This could cause us to lose customers, who may be able to secure faster delivery times from our competitors, and require us to maintain higher levels of working capital. OUR PRODUCT-TO-MARKET CHALLENGE IS CRITICAL. Our success depends on our ability to quickly enter the market and establish an early mover advantage. We must implement an aggressive sales and marketing campaign to solicit customers and strategic partners. Any delay could seriously affect our ability to establish and effectively exploit an early-to-market-strategy. AS OUR BUSINESS EXPANDS INTERNATIONALLY, WE WILL BE EXPOSED TO ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. Our expansion into international operations exposes us to additional risks unique to such international markets, including the following: o Increased credit management risks and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; o Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, wireless communications standards, exchange rates, trading policies, tariffs and other barriers; o Uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the protection of intellectual property; o Language barriers; and o Potential adverse tax consequences. Furthermore, if we are unable to further develop distribution channels in countries in North America, the Caribbean and South America, we may not be able to grow our international operations, and our ability to increase our revenue will be negatively impacted. WE MAY INFRINGE THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. The industry in which we operate has many participants that own, or claim to own, proprietary intellectual property. In the past we have received, and in the future may receive, claims from third parties alleging that we, and possibly our customers, violate their intellectual property rights. Rights to intellectual property can be difficult to verify and litigation may be necessary to establish whether or not we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. In many cases, these third parties are companies with substantially greater resources than us, and they may be able to, and may choose to, pursue complex litigation to a greater degree than we could. Regardless of whether these infringement claims have merit or not, we may be subject to the following: o We may be liable for substantial damages, liabilities and litigation costs, including attorneys' fees; o We may be prohibited from further use of the intellectual property and may be required to cease selling our products that are subject to the claim; o We may have to license the third party intellectual property, incurring royalty fees that may or may not be on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate and obtain such a license from the third party; o We may have to develop a non-infringing alternative, which could be costly and delay or result in the loss of sales. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to develop such a non-infringing alternative; o The diversion of management's attention and resources; o Our relationships with customers may be adversely affected; and o We may be required to indemnify our customers for certain costs and damages they incur in such a claim. 9 In the event of an unfavorable outcome in such a claim and our inability to either obtain a license from the third party or develop a non-infringing alternative, then our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected and we may have to restructure our business. Absent a specific claim for infringement of intellectual property, from time to time we have and expect to continue to license technology, intellectual property and software from third parties. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our third party licenses or obtain new licenses when required and this inability could materially adversely affect our business and operating results and the quality and functionality of our products. In addition, there is no assurance that third party licenses we execute will be on commercially reasonable terms. Under purchase orders and contracts for the sale of our products we may provide indemnification to our customers for potential intellectual property infringement claims for which we may have no corresponding recourse against our third party licensors. This potential liability, if realized, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. GOVERNMENT REGULATION COULD RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS AND INABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS. Our products are subject to certain mandatory regulatory approvals in the United States and other regions in which we operate. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission regulates many aspects of communications devices. Although we have obtained all the necessary Federal Communications Commission and other required approvals for the products we currently sell, we may not obtain approvals for future products on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory requirements may change or we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals from countries other than the United States in which we may desire to sell products in the future. WE MAY NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING DUE TO LIMITED RESOURCES. Our financial resources are limited, and the amount of funding that is required to develop and commercialize our products and technologies is highly uncertain. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or on terms satisfactory to us. Lack of funds may cause us to delay, reduce and/or abandon certain or all aspects of our development and commercialization programs. If we seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution, and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our Common Stock. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our expansion, take advantage of desirable acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products or respond to competitive pressures. Such inability could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 