ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Prospective and existing investors should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this annual report, including our financial statements and related notes before purchasing shares of our common stock. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. 14 Index Risks Related to Our Business The medical infectious waste disposal industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, both in the US and overseas. Our business requires us to obtain many different approvals and permits or other types of governmental authorizations for each jurisdiction in which we operate. In addition, we have never generated profits from the infectious waste disposal business, and there can be no assurance that such business will become profitable in the future. The continuation of losses and negative cash flows from operations require us to obtain additional funds. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in obtaining additional funds from Vintage under the Credit Facility or other sources, whether publicly or privately or through equity or debt. Any such financing could be highly dilutive to stockholders. The maturity date of the Vintage Loan Facility is February 1, 2011 and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to repay the note or that the maturity date will be extended.. As we have not located a source to refinance the Vintage loan, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Vintage, whereby we would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vintage. Vintage recently agreed to extend the maturity date of the loan to the earlier of (i) February 1, 2011 or (ii) the termination of the Merger Agreement. The Company will seek further extensions until the close of the Merger, but there can be no assurance that further extensions will be granted. The Merger Agreement sets forth several conditions to the closing of the Merger, including approval by our stockholders at a special meeting to be called at a future date after clearance of proxy material. It is anticipated that the closing will be in the second quarter of calendar 2011. There can be no assurance that the Merger will close and if it does no t close, the Vintage loan will become due. If the Merger does not close and we are unable to locate a source to refinance the loan and obtain further funding we may have no alternative but to cease operations. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flows. In the past, we have experienced significant losses and negative cash flows from operations. If these trends continue in the future, it could adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Further, we have incurred negative cash flows from operations of approximately $2.9 million and $0.8 million for the years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively and as of September 30, 2010 we had a working capital deficiency of approximately $5.0 million. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition. There can be no assurance that our business will become profitable or cash flow positive in the future or that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred. If these trends continue in the future, it could have a material ad verse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. Our business requires capital for continued growth, and our growth will be slowed if we do not have sufficient capital. The continued growth and operation of our business may require additional funding for working capital, debt service, manufacture of our products, and expansion of our sales and support forces. We may be unable to secure such funding when needed in adequate amounts or on acceptable terms, if at all. To execute our business strategy, we may issue additional equity securities in public or private offerings, potentially at a price lower than the market price at the time of such issuance. Similarly, we may seek debt financing and may be forced to incur significant interest expense. If we cannot secure sufficient funding, we may be forced to forego sales opportunities and scale back operations. The global economic crisis could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. The current economic credit crisis is continuing to have a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this crisis on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to delivery delays or failures. 15 Index We may experience difficulties in manufacturing, sourcing components or supply of our proprietary disinfectant which could adversely affect our ability to generate sales. The SteriMed and the SteriMed Junior were manufactured for us by a third-party manufacturer in Israel that recently went into receivership and was acquired by third parties. While we expect our manufacturing to continue in Israel on a limited basis, we are seeking alternative, qualified manufacturers to produce our SteriMed Systems at costs that are acceptable to us. If we fail to effectively manufacture or cause the manufacture of or fail to develop a market to increase the manufacturing needs for our SteriMed Systems, we will likely be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred in attempting to produce and market these products and technologies and may be unable to make sales or ever continue this business. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for the components of our SteriMed and SteriMed Junior Systems and also for the Ster-Cid® disinfectant. At present, there are no supply contracts in place. Our requirements are fulfilled against purchase orders. There can be no assurances that we will have adequate supplies of materials or the funds to procure such supplies of materials when needed. Although we believe that the required components are readily available and can be provided by other suppliers, delays may be incurred in establishing relationships or in waiting for quality control assurance with other manufacturers for substitute components. In selling our products, we could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and if we do not prevail, this could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. We regard certain aspects of our products, processes, services and technology as proprietary, and we have trademarks and patents for certain aspects of the SteriMed Systems. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing on the proprietary right of others, both in the United States and abroad. Our proprietary rights to Ster-Cid® relate to an exclusive worldwide license that we had obtained from a third party manufacturer in Europe to purchase the Ster-Cid® disinfectant. The patent positions of medical waste technology companies generally involve complex legal and factual questions. While patents are important to our business, the regulatory approvals are more critical in permitting us to market ou r products. We may also apply in the future for patent protection for uses, processes, products and systems that we develop. There can be no assurance that any future patent for which we apply will be issued, that any existing patents issued will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that the rights granted thereunder will provide any competitive advantage, that third-parties will not infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights or that third parties will not independently develop similar products, services and technology. We may incur substantial costs in defending any patent or license infringement suits or in asserting any patent or license rights, including those granted by third parties, the expenditure of which we might not be able to afford. An adverse determination could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from or pay royalties to third parties or require us to develop appropriate alternative te chnology. There can be no assurance that any such licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we could develop alternate technology at an acceptable price or at all. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and for the future profitability. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend ourselves from claims of infringement, invalidity or unenforceability. Litigation may be expensive and divert resources even if we win. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results such that it could cause us to reduce or cease operations. Developing products based upon new technologies can result in litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. While no infringement claims have been made or threatened against us, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future, that assertion by such parties will not result in costly litigation, or that they will not prevail in any such litigation. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms or, alternatively, be able to redesign products on a cost-effective basis to avoid infringement. 16 Index Our products may become obsolete and we may not be able to develop competitive products on a timely basis or at all. Our future growth and profitability depend in part on our ability to respond to technological changes and successfully develop and market new products that achieve significant market acceptance. The RMW industry has been historically marked by very rapid technological change and the frequent introductions of new products. There is no assurance that we will have the financial or technological capacity to be able to develop new products that will realize broad market acceptance. The industry in which we operate is continually evolving which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and increases the risk of an investment in our securities. There are numerous methods of handling and disposing of RMW, of which our technology is one of the available systems. We believe that our SteriMed Systems, due to their ability to be used on site, competitive cost and ease of use, offer a significant advantage over RMW systems offered by our competitors. We realize, however, there can be no assurance that a different or new technology may not supplant us in the market. Further, we cannot guarantee that in the event that we are successful in the deployment of our systems in the marketplace, the predominant companies in the field, which have substantially greater resources and market visibility than us, will not try to develop similar systems. A failure in the performance or operation of our product could expose us to liability. The malfunction or misuse of our SteriMed Systems may result in damage to property or persons, as well as violation of various health and safety regulations, thereby subjecting us to possible liability. We currently retain a claims made product liability insurance policy. Although our insurance coverage is in amounts and deductibles customary in the industry, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover any potential liability. A successful product liability, environmental or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. To date, no claims have been made against us. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth which would negatively impact our operations. If our business and markets continue to grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. In addition, we may face challenges in managing the demand for our products and providing adequate service support. Such events would increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause backlogs and administrative inefficiencies. Risks Relating to Our Industry We are subject to extensive regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, a change in which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The medical waste management industry is subject to extensive U.S. EPA, state and local laws and regulations relating to the collection, packaging, labeling, handling, documentation, reporting, treatment and disposal of regulated medical waste. The use of the Ster-Cid® disinfectant in the SteriMed Systems is registered with the U.S. EPA under FIFRA; however, the SteriMed Systems are not subject to U.S. EPA registration. Our business requires us to comply with these extensive laws and regulations and also to obtain permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates or other types of governmental permission from all states and some local jurisdictions where we sell or lease the SteriMed Systems. The SteriMed has been a pproved for marketing in 46 states and the SteriMed Junior in 42 states. Our ability to obtain such approvals in the remaining states and the timing and cost to do so, if successful, cannot be easily determined nor can the receipt of ultimate approval be assumed. The Ster-Cid® has been registered in 50 states. 17 Index In markets outside the U.S., our ability to market the SteriMed Systems is governed by the regulations of the specific country. In foreign countries, we primarily market through distributors and we rely on them to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to permit the SteriMed Systems to be marketed in that country. We are therefore dependent on the distributors to process these applications where required. In many of these countries, we have no direct control or involvement in the approval process, and therefore we cannot estimate when our product will be available in that market. State and local regulations often change and new regulations are frequently adopted. Changes in the applicable regulations could require us to obtain new approvals or permits, to change the way in which we operate or to make changes to our SteriMed Systems. We might be unable to obtain the new approvals or permits that we require and the cost of compliance with new or changed regulations could be significant. In the event we are not in compliance, we can be subject to fines and administrative, civil or criminal sanctions or suspension of our business. The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of key personnel Our success is highly dependent on the continued efforts of Dwight Morgan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Raymond Jackshies, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary, and George Aaron, Executive Vice President – International Business Development, who are our key management persons. Should operations expand, we will need to hire persons with a variety of skills and competition for these skilled individuals could be intense. Neither Mr. Morgan, Mr. Aaron, nor Mr. Jackshies plan to retire or leave us in the near future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and/or retaining key personnel in the future. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We do not carry any “key- man” insurance on the lives of any of our officers or employees. Currently, Mr. Morgan and Mr. Jackshies have Employment Agreements in place. Risks Relating to Our Organization Our certificate of incorporation allows for our board to create new series of preferred stock without further approval by our stockholders which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to such holders (i) the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, (ii) the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and (iii) the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than our common stock or that is convertible into our common stock, which cou ld decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing common stockholders. Any new series of preferred stock issued is subject to the provisions or restrictions as contained in any previously issued outstanding series of preferred stock and the covenants and restrictions under our Vintage Loan Facility. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Recent history relating to the market prices of public companies indicates that, from time to time, there may be periods of extreme volatility in the market price of our securities because of factors unrelated to the operating performance of, or announcements concerning, the issuers of the affected stock, especially for stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) and the Pink Sheets. Our common stock is not actively traded, and the bid and asked prices for our Common stock have fluctuated significantly. 18 Index The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define Penny Stocks to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less that $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. Our failure to comply with the OTCBB Stock Exchange listing requirements has caused our stock to be moved to the Pink Sheets. As of November 26, 2010, the closing price for our common stock was $0.05 per share and therefore, it is designated a “Penny Stock.” We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past We do not have the financial capacity to pay dividends and also our Credit Facility prohibits us from paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the future. If we were to become profitable, it is expected that such earnings would be retained to support our business. Any declared dividend in the future would be subject to the terms of the outstanding preferred stock under which amounts are accruing for future dividends (as to date, we have failed to pay any dividends on our outstanding preferred stock) or other payments on liquidation. Since we have no plans to pay cash dividends, an investor would only realize income from their investment in our shares if there is a rise in the market price of our Common Stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. We are currently subject to penny st ock regulations and restrictions. We are also subject to certain covenants with Vintage which could affect our ability to source additional capital from other third parties. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuations which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. There has been limited trading in our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common stock will either develop or be maintained. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefor e, can offer no assurances that the market for our common stock will be stable or appreciate over time. Failure to comply with covenants under an existing loan facility could jeopardize the survival of our business and make it difficult to source additional capital for our business. In September 2009, we secured a Loan Facility to finance the operations of our business. These funds have been used to pay off various creditors and secure our intellectual property rights. Provided we meet certain defined criteria and cure several existing events of defaults as defined in the Loan Facility with Vintage, these funds will also enable us to build up our inventory to fulfill our current orders and future demand arising from our increased marketing efforts. As sales grow, we will need to expand our customer service and technical support capabilities to meet the needs of our clients. Under the terms of the Loan Facility Agreement with Vintage, we were obliged to fulfill certain defined covenants and achieve specific milestones, including those relating to unit sales and the relocation of manufacturing. To date, these aforementioned covenants and milestones have not been met and we have been put on notice by Vintage of these defaults. Notwithstanding, while Vintage have not waived these defaults, we are endeavoring to cure them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 19 Index 