ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We are highly leveraged and have significant fixed operating costs; therefore our profitability and ability to service our debt could be negatively impacted by an inability to generate sales growth. We are highly leveraged and have a significant amount of fixed costs. Therefore, our ability to continue to service our debt and fund necessary capital additions is dependent on our ability to grow sales and control inflationary increases in our fixed costs. Changes in government reimbursement levels could adversely affect our net sales, cash flows and profitability. We derived 39.7%, 40.3%, and 41.1% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, from reimbursements for O&P services and products from programs administered by Medicare, Medicaid and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Each of these programs sets maximum reimbursement levels for O&P services and products. If these agencies reduce reimbursement levels for O&P services and products in the future, our net sales could substantially decline. In addition, the percentage of our net sales derived from these sources may increase as the portion of the U.S. population over age 65 continues to grow, making us more vulnerable to maximum reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels because fee schedules of certain third-party payors are indexed to Medicare. Furthermore, the healthcare industry is experiencing a trend towards cost containment as government and other third-party payors seek to impose lower reimbursement rates and negotiate reduced contract rates with service providers. This trend could adversely affect our net sales. Medicare provides for reimbursement for O&P products and services based on prices set forth in fee schedules for ten regional service areas. Medicare prices are adjusted each year based on the Consumer Price Index- Urban ("CPIU") unless Congress acts to change or eliminate the adjustment. The Medicare price increases for 2008 and 2007 were 2.7% and 4.3%, respectively. 16 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2009, the Medicare price increase was 5.0%. If the U.S. Congress were to legislate additional modifications to the Medicare fee schedules, our net sales from Medicare and other payors could be adversely and materially affected. We cannot predict whether any such modifications to the fee schedules will be enacted or what the final form of any modifications might be. On April 24, 2006, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services announced a proposed rule that would call for a competitive bidding program for certain covered prosthetic and orthotic equipment as required by the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. We cannot now identify the impact of such proposed rule on us. Changes in payor reimbursements could negatively affect our net sales volume. Recent years have seen a consolidation of healthcare companies coupled with certain payors terminating contracts, imposing caps or reducing reimbursement for O&P products. Additionally, employers are increasingly pushing healthcare costs down to their employees. These trends could result in decreased O&P revenue. We depend on the continued employment of our orthotists and prosthetists who work at our patient-care centers and their relationships with physicians and patients. Our ability to provide O&P services at our patient-care centers would be impaired and our net sales reduced if we were unable to maintain these relationships. Our net sales would be reduced if a significant number of our practitioners leave us. In addition, any failure of our practitioners to maintain the quality of care provided or to otherwise adhere to certain general operating procedures at our facilities, or any damage to the reputation of a significant number of our practitioners, could adversely affect our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our net sales. A substantial amount of our business is derived from orthopedic surgeons and other healthcare providers. If the quality of our services and products declines in the opinion of these healthcare providers, they may cease to recommend our products, which would adversely affect our net sales. If the non-competition agreements we have with our key executive officers and key practitioners were found by a court to be unenforceable, we could experience increased competition resulting in a decrease in our net sales. We generally enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and a significant number of our practitioners which contain non-compete and other provisions. The laws of each state differ concerning the enforceability of non-competition agreements. State courts will examine all of the facts and circumstances at the time a party seeks to enforce a non-compete covenant. We cannot predict with certainty whether or not a court will enforce a non-compete covenant in any given situation based on the facts and circumstances at that time. If one or more of our key executive officers and/or a significant number of our practitioners were to leave us and the courts refused to enforce the non-compete covenant, we might be subject to increased competition, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face periodic reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with federal and state government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business. We contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to provide O&P services. Pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: •refunding of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; 17 Table of Contents •imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; •loss of our right to participate in various federal programs; •damage to our reputation in various markets; or •material and/or adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local governmental regulations, noncompliance with which could result in significant penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business. A failure by us to comply with the numerous federal, state and/or local healthcare and other governmental regulations to which we are subject, including the regulations discussed under "Government Regulation" in Item 1 above, could result in significant penalties and adverse consequences, including exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the results of the current investigations over the billing allegations at the West Hempstead patient-care center are not resolved in our favor or if such allegations are expanded to other patient-care centers and are not resolved in our favor, our operations may be negatively impacted and we may be subject to significant fines. If the results of the investigation at the West Hempstead patient-care center and any other patient-care centers uncover billing discrepancies, we may be responsible for noncompliance fines and the extension of such investigation to other patient-care centers. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities are not currently accessible and our auction rate securities have experienced other than temporary decline in value, which could adversely affect our income. Our investments include two auction rate securities ("ARS") reported at an aggregate fair value of $5.5 million and an aggregate cost of $7.5 million, as of December 31, 2008. ARS are securities that are structured with short-term interest rate reset dates which generally occur every 28 days, but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each reset period, investors can attempt to sell via auction or continue to hold the securities at par. The auctions for all of the ARS held by us were unsuccessful as of December 31, 2008. The funds associated with these will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. Our Website Our website is http://www.hanger.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and Section 16 filings (i.e. Forms 3, 4 and 5) as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov. Our website also contains the charters of the Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee and Quality and Technology Committee of our board of directors; our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Employees, which includes our principal executive, financial and accounting officers; as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 18 Table of Contents 