ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in government reimbursement levels could adversely affect our net sales, cash flows and profitability. We derived 40.4%, 40.0%, and 40.4% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, from reimbursements for O&P services and products from programs administered by Medicare, Medicaid and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Each of these 13 Table of Contents programs set maximum reimbursement levels for O&P services and products. If these agencies reduce reimbursement levels for O&P services and products in the future, our net sales could substantially decline. In addition, the percentage of our net sales derived from these sources may increase as the portion of the U.S. population over age 65 continues to grow, making us more vulnerable to maximum reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels because fee schedules of certain third-party payors are indexed to Medicare. Furthermore, the healthcare industry is experiencing a trend towards cost containment as government and other third-party payors seek to impose lower reimbursement rates and negotiate reduced contract rates with service providers. This trend could adversely affect our net sales. For example, a number of states have reduced their Medicaid reimbursement rates for O&P services and products, or have reduced Medicaid eligibility, and others are in the process of reviewing Medicaid reimbursement policies generally, including for prosthetic and orthotic devices. Additionally, Medicare provides for reimbursement for O&P products and services based on prices set forth in fee schedules for ten regional service areas. Medicare prices are adjusted each year based on the Consumer Price Index—Urban ("CPIU") unless Congress acts to change or eliminate the adjustment. The Medicare price increases/(decrease) for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were 0.8%, 2.4%, (0.1%), 0.0%, and 5.0%, respectively. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Pub. L. No. 111-148, March 23, 2010 ("PPACA") changed the Medicare inflation factors applicable to O&P (and other) suppliers. The annual updates for years subsequent to 2011 are based on the percentage increase in the CPI-U for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year. Section 3401(m) of PPACA required that for 2011 and each subsequent year, the fee schedule update factor based on the CPI-U for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year is to be adjusted by the annual economy-wide private nonfarm business multifactory productivity ("the MFP Adjustment"). The MFP Adjustment may result in that percentage increase being less than zero for a year, and may result in payment rates for a year being less than such payment rates for the preceding year. CMS has not yet issued a final rule implementing these adjustments for years beyond 2011, but has indicated in a proposed rule that it will do so as part of the annual program instructions to the O&P fee schedule updates. See 75 Fed. Reg. 40040, 40122, et seq. (July 13, 2010). If the U.S. Congress were to legislate additional modifications to the Medicare fee schedules, our net sales from Medicare and other payors could be adversely and materially affected. In addition to the risks to our Patient Care segment businesses discussed above, changes in government reimbursement levels could also adversely affect the net sales, cash flows and profitability of our Therapeutic Services segment business. In particular, a significant majority of ACP's sales involve devices and related services provided to skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) and similar businesses. Reductions in government reimbursement levels to SNFs could cause such SNFs to reduce or cancel their use of ACP's devices and modalities, negatively impacting net sales, cash flows and profitability. For example in July 2011 CMS announced an across the board reduction of approximately 10% in SNF reimbursement levels, negatively impacting the demand for ACP's devices and treatment modalities. We cannot predict whether any other modifications to reimbursement levels will be implemented, or if implemented what form any modifications might take. Changes in payor reimbursements could negatively affect our net sales volume. Recent years have seen a consolidation of healthcare companies coupled with certain payors terminating contracts, imposing caps or reducing reimbursement for O&P products. Additionally, employers are increasingly pushing healthcare costs down to their employees. These trends could result in decreased O&P revenue. 14 Table of Contents Healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our net sales, cash flows and profitability. Various healthcare reform measures have been enacted into law in recent years, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act adopted in March of 2010 ("PPACA"). These reforms are significant and over time could significantly change the way healthcare, including O&P services and products, are obtained and paid for in the United States. These changes are designed to increase access to and reduce the cost of healthcare through, among other things: expanded access to Medicaid; incentives to encourage shared savings programs, such as accountable care organizations; other alternative payment methodologies for Medicare reimbursement; and mandated private insurance for most non-indigent individuals under the age of 65. The reforms also include stronger enforcement tools and increased penalties. These changes could have a dramatic impact on the healthcare market generally, including the O&P services and products markets. It remains unclear, however, the ultimate impact the reforms will have since they will not be fully implemented for a number of years, and the reforms could be further modified, delayed or repealed prior to full implementation. Nevertheless, the reforms, when implemented, may have an adverse affect our net sales, cash flows and profitability. We face periodic reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with federal and state government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business. We contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to provide O&P services. Pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: •refunding of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; •imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; •loss of our right to participate in various federal programs; •damage to our reputation in various markets; or •material and/or adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local governmental regulations, noncompliance with which could result in significant penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business. A failure by us to comply with the numerous federal, state and/or local healthcare and other governmental regulations to which we are subject, including the regulations discussed under "Government Regulation" in Item 1 above, could result in significant penalties and adverse consequences, including exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the non-competition agreements we have with our key executive officers and key clinicians were found by a court to be unenforceable, we could experience increased competition resulting in a decrease in our net sales. We generally enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and a significant number of our clinicians which contain non-compete and other provisions. The laws of each state differ concerning the enforceability of non-competition agreements. State courts will examine all of the facts and circumstances at the time a party seeks to enforce a non-compete covenant. We cannot predict with certainty whether or not a court will enforce a non-compete covenant in any given situation based on the facts and circumstances at that time. If one or more of our key executive officers and/or a significant number of our clinicians were to leave us and the courts refused to enforce the non-compete 15 Table of Contents covenant, we might be subject to increased competition, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness. We have substantial debt. As of December 31, 2012, we have approximately $520.6 million of total indebtedness and $99.5 million available on our Revolving Credit Facility. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, our substantial indebtedness could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; •increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; •make it more difficult for us to borrow money for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; •limit our ability to refinance indebtedness, or the associated costs may increase; and •expose us to the risk of increased interest rates with respect to that portion of our debt that has a variable rate of interest. Our Website Our website is http://www.hanger.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings (i.e. Forms 3, 4 and 5), proxy statements, and other documents as required by applicable law and regulations as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 (1-800-732-0330). The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our website also contains the charters of the Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee and Quality and Technology Committee of our Board of Directors; our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Employees, which includes our principal executive, financial and accounting officers; as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 