ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in government reimbursement levels could adversely affect our net sales, cash flows and profitability. We derived 40.0%, 40.4% and 40.0% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, from reimbursements for O&P services and products from programs administered by Medicare, Medicaid and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Each of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for O&P services and products. If these agencies reduce reimbursement levels for O&P services and products in the future, our net sales could substantially decline. In addition, the percentage of our net sales derived from these sources may increase as the portion of the U.S. population over age 65 continues to grow, making us more vulnerable to reimbursement reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels because fee schedules of certain third-party payors are indexed to Medicare. Furthermore, the healthcare industry is experiencing a trend towards cost containment as government and other third-party payors seek to impose lower reimbursement rates and negotiate reduced contract rates with service providers. This trend could adversely affect our net sales. For example, a number of states have reduced their Medicaid reimbursement rates for O&P services and products, or have reduced Medicaid eligibility, and others are in the process of reviewing Medicaid reimbursement policies generally, including for prosthetic and orthotic devices. Additionally, Medicare provides for reimbursement for O&P products and services based on prices set forth in fee schedules for ten regional service areas. Medicare prices are adjusted each year based on the Consumer Price Index—Urban ("CPIU") unless Congress acts to change or eliminate the adjustment. The Medicare price increases/(decreases) for 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were 1.0%, 0.8%, 2.4%, (0.1%) and 0.0%, respectively. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Pub. L. No. 111-148, March 23, 2010 ("PPACA") changed the Medicare inflation factors applicable to O&P (and other) suppliers. The annual updates for years subsequent to 2011 are based on the percentage increase in the CPI-U for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year. Section 3401(m) of PPACA required that for 2011 and each subsequent year, the fee schedule update factor based on the CPI-U for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year is to be adjusted by the annual change in economy-wide private nonfarm business multifactory productivity ("the MFP Adjustment"). The MFP Adjustment may result in the percentage increase being less than zero for a year, and may result in payment rates for a year being less than such payment rates for the preceding year. CMS has not yet issued a final rule implementing these adjustments for years beyond 2011, but has indicated in a proposed rule that it will do so as part of the annual program instructions to the O&P fee schedule updates. See 75 Fed. Reg. 40040, 40122, et seq. (July 13, 2010). If the U.S. Congress were to legislate additional modifications to the Medicare fee schedules, our net sales from Medicare and other payors could be adversely and materially affected. The Budget Control Act of 2011 required, among other things, mandatory across-the-board reductions in Federal spending, or "sequestration." While delayed by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, President Obama issued a sequestration order on March 1, 2013. For services provided on or after April 1, 2013, Medicare fee-for-service claim payments, including those for DMEPOS (durable medical equipment (DME), prosthetics, orthotics and supplies) as well as claims under the DME Competitive Bidding Program, are reduced by 2 percent. This is a claims payment adjustment with limited impact on the Company (approximately $2.8 million through December 31, 2013) ; no permanent reductions in the Medicare DMEPOS fee schedule have been made as a result of sequestration, therefore reimbursements from Medicaid, the VA and commercial payers who use the Medicare fee schedule as a basis for reimbursement have not been impacted. In addition to the risks to our Patient Care segment businesses discussed above, changes in government reimbursement levels could also adversely affect the net sales, cash flows and profitability of one of the business in our Product & Services segment business. In particular, a significant majority of sales at ACP involve devices and related services provided to skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) and similar 13 Table of Contents businesses. Reductions in government reimbursement levels to SNFs could cause such SNFs to reduce or cancel their use of ACP's devices and modalities, negatively impacting net sales, cash flows and profitability. For example in July 2011 CMS announced an across the board reduction of approximately 10% in SNF reimbursement levels, negatively impacting the demand for ACP's devices and treatment modalities. We cannot predict whether any other modifications to reimbursement levels will be implemented, or if implemented what form any modifications might take. Changes in payor reimbursements could negatively affect our net sales volume. Recent years have seen a consolidation of healthcare companies coupled with certain payors terminating contracts, imposing caps or reducing reimbursement for O&P products. Additionally, employers are increasingly pushing healthcare costs down to their employees. These trends could result in decreased O&P revenue. Healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our net sales, cash flows and profitability. Various healthcare reform measures have been enacted into law in recent years, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act adopted in March of 2010 ("PPACA"). These reforms are significant and over time could significantly change the way healthcare, including O&P services and products, are obtained and paid for in the United States. These changes are designed to increase access to and reduce the cost of healthcare through, among other things: expanded access to Medicaid; incentives to encourage shared savings programs, such as accountable care organizations; other alternative payment methodologies for Medicare reimbursement; and mandated private insurance for most non-indigent individuals under the age of 65. The reforms also include stronger enforcement tools and increased penalties. These changes could have a dramatic impact on the healthcare market generally, including the O&P services and products markets. It remains unclear, however, the ultimate impact the reforms will have since they will not be fully implemented for a number of years, and the reforms have been, and could be, further modified, delayed or repealed prior to full implementation. Nevertheless, the reforms, when implemented, may have an adverse affect our net sales, cash flows and profitability. We face periodic reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with federal and state government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business. We contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to provide O&P services. Pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: •refunding of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; •imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; •loss of our right to participate in various federal programs; •damage to our reputation in various markets; or •material and/or adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years we have seen a significant increase in Medicare audits, including Recover Audit Contractor or RAC audits, Comprehensive/Error Rate Testing or CERT audits and Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) prepayment audits. At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 we had approximately $15.2 million, $5.4 million and an immaterial amount of claims subject to pending Medicare audits, respectively. Through December 31, 2013, our success rate on these audits at final adjudication (the Administrative Law Judge hearing) was approximately 90%. Nevertheless, Medicare 14 Table of Contents audits could have a material and adverse effect on our business financial condition and result of operations, particularly if our success rate at final adjudication were to decline. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local governmental regulations, noncompliance with which could result in significant penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business. A failure by us to comply with the numerous federal, state and/or local healthcare and other governmental regulations to which we are subject, including the regulations discussed under "Government Regulation" in Item 1 above, could result in significant penalties and adverse consequences, including exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, timely file our periodic reports, maintain our reporting status or prevent fraud. In connection with our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, we concluded there were certain material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, we did not design and maintain effective controls over i) raw materials to ensure items are priced using the first in first out method resulting from the identification of inaccurate prices utilized in the valuation of our inventory quantities on hand based on physical observation; ii) the accuracy of the stage of completion in valuing work-in-process inventory resulting from the identification of data input errors from our physical inventory observation used in the valuation of our work-in-process inventory; and iii) certain key assumptions used in the valuation of work-in-process inventory resulting from the identification of inaccurate or imprecise data used in the development of these assumptions. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected or corrected on a timely basis. We are working to remediate the material weaknesses. We have begun taking steps and plan to take additional measures to remediate the underlying causes of the material weaknesses, primarily through the continued development and implementation of formal policies, improved processes and documented procedures, as well as the hiring of additional finance personnel. The actions that we are taking are subject to ongoing senior management review, as well as audit committee oversight. Although we plan to complete this remediation as quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful in remediating our material weaknesses. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, then there exists a risk that our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements that are unknown to us at that time, and such misstatements could require us to restate our financial results. Our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. The existence of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting may result in current and potential stockholders losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to timely file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Our inability to timely file periodic reports under the Exchange Act could result in the SEC revoking the registration of our common stock, the New York Stock Exchange delisting our 15 Table of Contents common stock, or a default or an event of default under our credit and other debt agreements. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The implementation of Janus, our new comprehensive clinic management system, could interfere with our patient care clinic operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. We are currently in the process of implementing Janus, our new comprehensive clinic management system in our patient care clinics. We are in the process of rolling out Janus, and expect the rollout to continue through 2016. Any disruptions, delays or complications in the implementation process, or any deficiencies in the design, operation or expected performance of this new system, could result in higher than expected implementation costs, the diversion of management's and other employee's attention from the day-to-day operations of our patient care clinics, including scheduling patient visits, and other disruptions to our patient care business. Any of these consequences could have an adverse impact on our revenue or costs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the non-competition agreements we have with our key executive officers and key clinicians were found by a court to be unenforceable, we could experience increased competition resulting in a decrease in our net sales. We generally enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and a significant number of our clinicians which contain non-compete and other provisions. The laws of each state differ concerning the enforceability of non-competition agreements. State courts will examine all of the facts and circumstances at the time a party seeks to enforce a non-compete covenant. We cannot predict with certainty whether or not a court will enforce a non-compete covenant in any given situation based on the facts and circumstances at that time. If one or more of our key executive officers and/or a significant number of our clinicians were to leave us and the courts refused to enforce the non-compete covenant, we might be subject to increased competition, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Website Our website is http://www.hanger.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings (i.e. Forms 3, 4 and 5), proxy statements, and other documents as required by applicable law and regulations as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission at http://www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 (1-800-732-0330). The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our website also contains the charters of the Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee and Quality and Technology Committee of our Board of Directors; our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Employees, which includes our principal executive, financial and accounting officers; as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 