Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Our Business and Results of Operations Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business, Operations and Product Development We have a long history of operating losses and it is likely that our operating expenses will continue to exceed our revenues for the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant operating losses since our formation in 1982, and have never earned a profit since that time. As of June 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $242,000,000, including net losses of $22,909,000 and $16,656,000 for the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In July 2008 we entered into an agreement with Nycomed GmbH, or Nycomed, providing Nycomed an exclusive worldwide license to develop, manufacture, and commercialize veltuzumab, our humanized anti-CD20 antibody veltuzumab in the subcutaneous formulation, for the treatment of all non-cancer indications. Under the terms of this agreement, we retain the right to develop veltuzumab in the field of oncology. As a result, we will continue to incur significant expenses relating to the development of veltuzumab for oncology indications. In addition, the Company will continue its ongoing Phase I/II study in immune thrombocytopenic purpura, or ITP. In May 2006, we entered into an agreement with UCB, S.A., or UCB, granting UCB the exclusive, worldwide license to develop, manufacture, market and sell epratuzumab, our humanized CD22 antibody, for all autoimmune disease indications. As part of this agreement UCB assumed the responsibility for conducting the Phase III SLE clinical trials we had designed and initiated. UCB subsequently decided to terminate these trials and establish new protocols under which new clinical trials for the treatment of SLE would be conducted. As a result of this decision, we are no longer able to determine when these clinical trials will take place nor how these decisions will impact our obligation period under the terms of the agreement with UCB. Therefore we have ceased amortizing to revenue the deferred revenue recorded with the receipt of the up front payments from UCB at the inception of the license agreement until such time as the obligation period is reasonably determinable. As of June 30, 2008 this deferred revenue reported on the balance sheet is $31,145,000. The only significant product sales we have earned to date have come from the limited sales of our diagnostic imaging products. In addition, we have made the strategic decision to de-emphasize sales of our diagnostic products and focus on our therapeutic pipeline. We have never had product sales of any therapeutic product. We expect to continue to experience significant operating losses as we invest further in our research and development activities while simultaneously attempting to develop and commercialize our other therapeutic product candidates. If we are unable to develop commercially viable therapeutic products or to license them to third parties, it is likely that we will never achieve significant revenues or become profitable, either of which would jeopardize our ability to continue as a going concern. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of our investment in auction rate securities. Our short-term marketable securities consist of AAA rated auction rate securities at a value of $20.0 million. The continued negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If the credit markets do not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. If an auction continues to fail for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate 17 securities at par. In the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is found, such buyer may only be willing to purchase the investments at price below par. Further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third-parties insuring such investments may further impact our ability to auction or sell these securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any of our investments in the auction rate securities. If we are not able to monetize some or all of our auction rate securities, we may suffer a loss and such loss could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future ongoing operations. We may not be able to sell some or all of our auction rate securities at an auction if the auction fails; that is, if there are more auction rate securities offered for sale than there are buyers for those auction rate securities. The relative buying and selling interest of market participants in our auction rate securities and in the auction rate securities market as a whole will vary over time, and such variations may be affected by, among other things, news relating to the issuer, the attractiveness of alternative investments, the perceived risk of owning the security (whether related to credit, liquidity or any other risk), the accounting or tax treatment accorded the instruments, reactions to regulatory actions or press reports, financial reporting cycles and market sentiment generally. Shifts of demand in response to any one or simultaneous particular events cannot be predicted and may be short-lived or exist for longer periods. It is possible that the potential lack of liquidity in our auction rate security investments could adversely affect our liquidity and its ability to fund our operations. We cannot predict whether future auctions related to auction rate securities will be successful. We are currently seeking alternatives for reducing its exposure to the auction rate market, but may not be able to identify any such alternative. If we are not able to monetize some or all of its auction rate securities, we could suffer a loss and such loss could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future ongoing operations. Our most advanced therapeutic product candidates are still only in the clinical development stage, and will require us to raise capital in the future in order to fund further expensive and time-consuming studies before they can even be submitted for final regulatory approval. Our most advanced therapeutic product candidates are still in the clinical development stage and will not be available for commercial sale any time soon, if ever. In order to complete the clinical development process for each of our product candidates, it will be necessary to invest significant financial resources, and devote a great deal of time and effort, just to reach the point where an application for final FDA or foreign regulatory approval can be submitted. In addition, we will need to raise additional capital to finance the costly process of obtaining approval for any of our current products should we get to that stage of product development. Clinical trials involve the administration of a product candidate to patients who are already extremely ill, making patient enrollment often difficult and expensive. Moreover, even in ideal circumstances where the patients can be enrolled and then followed for the several months or more required to complete the study, the trials can be suspended, terminated or otherwise fail for any number of reasons, including: • later-stage clinical trials may raise safety or efficacy concerns not readily apparent in earlier trials; • unforeseen difficulties in manufacturing the product candidate in compliance with all regulatory requirements and in the quantities needed to complete the trial may be cost-prohibitive; 18 • while underway, the continuation of clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to modifications to the clinical trial’s protocols based on interim results obtained; • our collaboration partner may suspend or cease trials in their sole discretion; • during the long trial process, alternative therapies may become available which make further development of the product candidate impracticable; and • if we are unable to obtain the additional capital we need to fund all of the clinical trials we foresee, we may forced to cancel or otherwise curtail some important trials. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials for our product candidates, particularly the ongoing trials for our most advanced product candidates, epratuzumab and veltuzumab, could severely harm our business and results of operation. Should the clinical development process be successfully completed, our ability to derive revenues from the sale of therapeutics will depend upon our first obtaining FDA as well as foreign regulatory approvals, all of which are subject to a number of unique risks and uncertainties. Even if we are able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in clinical trials, if we fail to gain timely approval to commercialize our product candidates from the FDA and other foreign regulatory authorities, we will be unable to generate the revenues we will need to build our business. These approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and even if and when they are granted they may not cover all the indications for which we seek approval. For example, while we may develop a product candidate with the intention of addressing a large, unmet medical need, the FDA may only approve the use of the drug for indications affecting a relatively small number of patients, thus greatly reducing the market size and our potential revenues. The approvals may also contain significant limitations in the form of warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use, which could further narrow the size of the market. Finally, even after approval can be obtained, we may be required to recall or withdraw a product as a result of newly discovered safety or efficacy concerns, either of which would have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In order to become a profitable biopharmaceutical company, we will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital. Because it can be difficult for a small-cap company like ours to raise equity capital on acceptable terms, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital when we need it, or on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if our technologies and product candidates are superior, if we lack the capital needed to bring our future products to market, we will never be successful. We have obtained the capital necessary to fund our research and development programs to date primarily from the following sources: • $40,000,000 from Nycomed in August 2008 to license the rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize veltuzumab for the treatment of all non-cancer indications; • $38,000,000 from UCB in May 2006 to license the rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize epratuzumab for the treatment of all autoimmune disease indications; • approximately $259,000,000 from the public and private sale of our debt and equity securities through June 30, 2008; and • limited product sales of CEA-Scan® and LeukoScan®, licenses, grants and interest income from our investments. 19 With the Nycomed Agreement receiving Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust approval in August 2008 and the receipt of the initial payments on August 21, 2008 related thereto, we believe we have adequate cash to fund our operations and research and development programs through the next twelve months. We intend to continue expending substantial capital on our research and development programs. We may need to raise additional capital in order to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and then commercialize our therapeutic product candidates. Our capital requirements are dependent on numerous factors, including: • the rate at which we progress our research programs and the number of product candidates we have in pre-clinical and clinical development at any one time; • the cost of conducting clinical trials involving patients in the United States, Europe and possibly elsewhere; • our need to establish the manufacturing capabilities necessary to produce the quantities of our product candidates we project we will need; • the time and costs involved in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals; • the cost of first obtaining, and then defending, our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the success of Nycomed and UCB in meeting the clinical development and commercial milestones for veltuzumab and epratuzumab, respectively; and • our ability to enter into licensing and other collaborative agreements to help off-set some of these costs. There may be additional cash requirements for many reasons, including, but not limited to, changes in our research and development plans, the need for unexpected capital expenditures or costs associated with any acquisitions of other businesses, assets or technologies that we may choose to undertake. If we deplete our existing capital resources, we will be required to either obtain additional capital quickly, or else significantly reduce our operating expenses and capital expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to raise future capital on acceptable terms will depend not only upon our operating performance, but also on conditions in the public and private debt and equity markets, as well as the overall performance of other companies in the biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors. Financing may not be available to us when we need it on terms we find acceptable, if at all. Furthermore, the terms of any such debt or equity financing may include covenants which limit our future ability to manage the business, contain preferences, privileges and rights superior to those enjoyed by holders of our common stock or cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. If we cannot successfully and efficiently manufacture the compounds that make up our products and product candidates, our ability to sell products and conduct clinical trials will be impaired. Our ability to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical research and development programs depends, in large part, upon our ability to manufacture our proprietary compounds in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. While we have completed construction on the major expansion of our manufacturing facilities in New Jersey in anticipation of our current and future needs, we have no historical experience in manufacturing these compounds in significant quantities, and we may not be able to do so in the quantities and with the degree of purity that is required. We also have contractual obligations to produce certain quantities of epratuzumab within our existing capacity constraints. Any interruption in manufacturing at this site, whether by natural acts or otherwise, would significantly and adversely affect our operations, and delay our research and development programs. 20 We are dependent upon Nycomed for the final development and commercialization of veltuzumab for the treatment of all non cancer indications worldwide and upon UCB for the final development and commercialization of epratuzumab for the treatment of autoimmune disease indications worldwide and they may not be successful. In addition, our recognition of the amortization of the upfront payments from Nycomed and UCB is determined by the completion of our obligations as outlined in the Nycomed and UCB Agreements. We have licensed the exclusive worldwide rights of our most advanced therapeutic compounds, veltuzumab (to Nycomed) and epratuzumab (to UCB). As a result, Nycomed and UCB are solely responsible, and we are depending upon them, for completing the clinical development of these compounds, obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals, and then commercializing and manufacturing the compounds for sale. If they do not fully perform their responsibilities under our agreements, or if the clinical trials to be conducted are not initiated, successful or are terminated by them for any other reason, our ability to commercialize these product candidates in the future, as well as other product candidates we have in development which are closely related to them, would be severely jeopardized. In such event, it is likely we would never receive any of the milestone payments or royalties that we are eligible to receive under our agreements with Nycomed and UCB, and our ability to fund the development and testing of our other product candidates would be adversely affected. We will amortize the $40 million upfront payment received from Nycomed over the period of time of our expected obligations in accordance with the terms of our agreement with Nycomed. We will amortize the $38 million upfront payment received from UCB as revenue over the period of time of our expected obligations in accordance with the terms of our agreement with UCB. We may not successfully establish and maintain collaborative and licensing arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Our future collaboration partners may not adequately perform their responsibilities under our agreement, which could adversely affect our development and commercialization program. A key element of our business strategy is to develop, market and commercialize our product candidates through collaborations with more established pharmaceutical companies. We may not be able to maintain or expand these licenses and collaborations or establish additional licensing and collaboration arrangements necessary to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Even if we are able to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements, these arrangements may not be on favorable terms and may contain provisions that will restrict our ability to develop, test and market our product candidates. Any failure to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements on favorable terms could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We expect to rely at least in part on third party collaborators to perform a number of activities relating to the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including the manufacturing of product materials, the design and conduct of clinical trials for our product candidates, and potentially the obtaining of regulatory approvals and marketing and distribution of any successfully developed products. Our collaborative partners may also have or acquire rights to control aspects of our product development and clinical programs. As a result, we may not be able to conduct these programs in the manner or on the time schedule we currently contemplate. In addition, if any of these collaborative partners withdraw support for our programs or product candidates or otherwise impair their development, our business could be negatively affected. To the extent we undertake any of these activities internally, our expenses may increase. In addition, our success depends on the performance of our collaborators of their responsibilities under these arrangements. Some potential collaborators may not perform their obligations in a timely fashion or in a manner satisfactory to us. Because such agreements may be exclusive, we may not be able to enter into a collaboration agreement with any other company covering the same product field during the applicable collaborative period. In addition, our collaborators’ competitors may not wish to do business with us at all due to our relationship with our collaborators. If we are unable to enter into additional product discovery and development collaborations, our ability to sustain or expand our business will be significantly diminished. 21 Our future success will depend upon our ability to first obtain and then adequately protect our patent and other intellectual property rights, as well avoiding the infringement of the rights of others. Our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to first obtain and then defend the patent and other intellectual property rights necessary for the commercialization of our product candidates. We have filed numerous patent applications on the technologies and processes that we use in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. Although we have obtained a number of issued U.S. patents to date, the patent applications owned or licensed by us may not result in additional patents being issued. Moreover, these patents may not afford us the protection we need against competitors with similar technologies or products. The successful development of therapeutic products frequently requires the application of multiple technologies that may be subject to the patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Although we believe it is likely we will need to license technologies and processes from third parties in the ordinary course of our business, we are not currently aware of any material conflict involving our technologies and processes with any valid patents or other intellectual property rights owned or licensed by others. In the event that a third party were to claim such a conflict existed, they could sue us for damages as well as seek to prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. It is possible that a third party could successfully claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Uncertainties resulting from the litigation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, would require significant financial resources and management time. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain these costs more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial and managerial resources. If a patent litigation or other proceeding is resolved unfavorably to us, we may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products without a license from the other party, in addition to being held liable for significant damages. We may not be able to obtain any such license on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition to our reliance on patents, we attempt to protect our proprietary technologies and processes by relying on trade secret laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements with our employees and other persons who have access to our proprietary information. These agreements and arrangements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technologies and processes in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies and processes or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or technology, either of which could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We face substantial competition in the biotechnology industry and may not be able to compete successfully against one or more of our competitors. The biotechnology industry is highly competitive, particularly in the area of diagnostic and therapeutic oncology products. In recent years, there have been extensive technological innovations achieved in short periods of time, and it is possible that future technological changes and discoveries by others could result in our products and product candidates quickly becoming uncompetitive or obsolete. A number of companies, including Biogen Idec, Genentech, Glaxo SmithKline, Hoffmann-LaRoche, Human Genome Sciences, Seattle Genetics, Trubion Pharmaceuticals, Zymogenetics, Merck Serono, Genmab, Medarex, Amgen Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Wyeth, AstraZeneca and Eli Lilly, are engaged in the development of therapeutic autoimmune and oncology products. Many of these companies have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In 22 addition, many of these companies have more established positions in the pharmaceutical industry and are therefore better equipped to develop, commercialize and market oncology products. Even some smaller competitors may obtain a significant competitive advantage over us if they are able to discover or otherwise acquire patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements or merge with larger pharmaceutical companies. We expect to face increasing competition from universities and other non-profit research organizations. These institutions carry out a significant amount of research and development in the field of antibody-based technologies, and they are increasingly aware of the commercial value of their findings. As a result, they are demanding greater patent and other proprietary rights, as well as licensing and future royalty revenues. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use in the operations of our business. In addition to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulation under various other foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations. Our manufacturing and research and development programs involve the controlled use of viruses, hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials can never be completely eliminated, and if an accident occurs we could be held liable for any damages that result, which could exceed our available resources. The nature of our business exposes us to significant liability claims, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover any future claims. The use of our compounds in clinical trials and any future sale exposes us to liability claims that could be substantial. These claims might be made directly by healthcare providers, medical personnel, patients, consumers, pharmaceutical companies and others selling or distributing our compounds. While we currently have product liability insurance that we consider adequate for our current needs, we may not be able to continue to obtain comparable insurance in the future at an acceptable cost, if at all. If for any reason we cannot maintain our existing or comparable liability insurance, our ability to clinically test and market products could be significantly impaired. Moreover, the amount and scope of our insurance coverage, as well as the indemnification arrangements with third parties upon which we rely, may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim. Any successful claim in excess of our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our operations. We are heavily dependent upon the talents of Dr. Goldenberg, our Chief Scientific Officer and Chief Medical Officer, and Ms. Sullivan, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as certain other key personnel. If Dr. Goldenberg, Ms. Sullivan or any of our other key personnel were to unexpectedly leave our company, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as our business grows we will need to continue to attract additional management and scientific personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense, and we may not be successful in our recruitment efforts. If we are unable to attract, motivate and retain qualified professionals, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. 23 Certain potential for conflicts of interest, both real and perceived, exist which could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Certain members of our senior management and Board of Directors have relationships and agreements, both with us as well as among themselves and their respective affiliates, which create the potential for both real, as well as perceived, conflicts of interest. These include Dr. David M. Goldenberg, our Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer and Chief Medical Officer, Ms. Cynthia L. Sullivan, our President and Chief Executive Officer (who is also the wife of Dr. Goldenberg), and certain companies with which we do business, including the Center for Molecular Medicine and Immunology and the Garden State Cancer Center (which operates as the clinical arm of CMMI to facilitate the translation of CMMI’s research efforts in the treatment of patients), collectively defined as CMMI. For example, Dr. Goldenberg is the President and a Trustee of CMMI, a not-for-profit cancer research center that we use to conduct certain research activities. In fiscal year 2008, we reimbursed CMMI with $105,000 for research activities conducted on our behalf. Further, Dr. Goldenberg’s employment agreement with us permits him to devote more of his time working for CMMI than for us, and other key personnel of our Company also have research collaborations with CMMI. As a result of these and other relationships, the potential for both real and perceived conflicts of interest exists and disputes could arise over the allocation of funds, research projects and ownership of intellectual property rights. In addition, in the event that we become involved in stockholder litigation regarding these potential conflicts, we might be required to devote significant resources and management time defending the company from these claims, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Given that autoimmune and cancer therapeutics such as the ones we are developing can cost upwards of $20,000 per treatment, even if our product candidates become available for sale it is likely that federal and state governments, insurance companies and other payers of health care costs will try to first limit the use of these drugs to certain patients, and may be reluctant to provide a level of reimbursement that permits us to earn a significant profit on our investment, if any. Our ability to successfully commercialize therapeutic products will depend, in significant part, on the extent to which hospitals and physicians can obtain appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for diagnostic and therapeutic products and related services. In addition, legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs may result in lower prices or the actual inability of prospective customers to purchase our products. Furthermore, even if reimbursement is available, it may not be available at price levels sufficient for us to realize a positive return on our investment. Risks Related to Government Regulation of our Industry Our industry and we are subject to intense regulation from the U.S. Government and such other governments and quasi-official regulatory bodies where our products are and product candidates may be sold. These governmental and other regulatory risks include: • Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, delay and failure can occur at any stage of our clinical trials; • Our clinical trials are dependent on patient enrollment and regulatory approvals, we do not know whether our planned trials will begin on time, or at all, or will be completed on schedule or at all; 24 • The FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or place a clinical trial on hold; • If the clinical development process is completed successfully, our ability to derive revenues from the sale of therapeutics will depend on our first obtaining FDA or other comparable foreign regulatory approvals, each of which are subject to unique risks and uncertainties; • There is no assurance that we will receive FDA or corollary foreign approval for any of our product candidates for any indication; we are subject to government regulation for the commercialization of our product candidates; • We have not received regulatory approval in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates; and • We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials used in the operations of our business. Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ. If the bid price of our common stock falls below $1.00 for an extended period, or we are unable to continue to meet NASDAQ’s listing maintenance standards for any other reason, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ. If our stock is not accepted for listing on the NASDAQ, we will make every possible effort to have it listed on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (the OTC Bulletin Board). If our common stock were to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and related Securities and Exchange Commissio, or SEC rules would impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell our securities. These rules may adversely affect the ability of stockholders to sell our common stock and otherwise negatively affect the liquidity, trading market and price of our common stock. If our common stock would not be able to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, we would make every effort to have it available for trading on the National Quotation Bureau’s Pink Sheets, or the Pink Sheets. The Pink Sheets market consists of security firms who act as market makers in the stocks, usually, of very small companies. The bid and asked prices are not quoted electronically, but are quoted daily in “hard copy” which is delivered to firms that subscribe. Stocks that trade in the Pink Sheets are usually not as liquid as those that trade in electronic markets and, often time, the difference between the bid and the asked prices are substantial. As a result, if our common stock were traded on the Pink Sheets, there would likely be a further negative affect on the liquidity, trading market and price of our common stock even compared to that we might suffer if we were traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result of the above, we cannot assure you that our common stock will be listed on a national securities exchange, a national quotation service, the OTC Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets or, if it is to be listed, whether or not there would be an interruption in the trading of our common stock. We believe that the listing of our stock on a recognized national trading market, such as the NASDAQ, is an important part of our business and strategy. Such a listing helps our stockholders by providing a readily available trading market with current quotations. Without that, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock would likely decline. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our common stock as currency or the value accorded it by other parties. In that regard, listing on a recognized national trading market will also affect 25 the company’s ability to benefit from the use of its operations and expansion plans, including for use in licensing agreements, joint ventures, the development of strategic relationships and acquisitions, which are critical to our business and strategy and none of which is currently the subject of any agreement, arrangement or understanding, with respect to any future financing or strategic relationship it may undertake. The delisting from NASDAQ would result in negative publicity and would negatively impact our ability to raise capital in the future. If we were delisted from the NASDAQ GMS, we may become subject to the trading complications experienced by “Penny Stocks” in the over-the-counter market. Delisting from the NASDAQ GMS may depress the price of our common stock such that we may become a penny stock. The SEC generally defines a penny stock as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently less than $5.00 per share. “Penny Stock” rules require, among other things, that any broker engaging in a purchase or sale of our securities provide its customers with: (i) a risk disclosure document, (ii) disclosure of market quotations, if any, (iii) disclosure of the compensation of the broker and its salespersons in the transaction and (iv) monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer’s accounts. A broker would be required to provide the bid and offer quotations and compensation information before effecting the transaction. This information must be contained on the customer’s confirmation. Generally, brokers are less willing to effect transactions in penny stocks due to these additional delivery requirements. These requirements may make it more difficult for stockholders to purchase or sell our common stock. Because the broker, not us, prepares this information, we would not be able to assure that such information is accurate, complete or current. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past, and is likely to continue to fluctuate widely based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Furthermore, the stock market generally and the market for stocks of relatively small biopharmaceutical companies like ours have from time to time experienced, and likely will again experience, significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to actual operating performance. From time to time, stock market analysts publish research reports or otherwise comment upon our business and future prospects. Due to a number of factors, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors and our stock price would likely decline as a result. These factors include: • announcements by us, our current collaboration partner, any future alliance partners or our competitors of pre-clinical studies and clinical trial results, regulatory developments, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, product sales, new products or product candidates and product development timelines; • the formation or termination of corporate alliances; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us or our respective competitors, including litigation; • developments or disputes concerning our patent or other proprietary rights, and the issuance of patents in our field of business to others; • government regulatory action; 26 • period-to-period fluctuations in the results of our operations; and • developments and market conditions for emerging growth companies and biopharmaceutical companies, in general. In addition, Internet “chat rooms” have provided forums where investors make predictions about our business and prospects, oftentimes without any real basis in fact, that readers may trade on. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market prices of the securities of companies in our industry, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against those companies. If we face such litigation in the future, it would result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could negatively impact our business. At August 26, 2008, we had 75,107,164 shares of common stock outstanding, 6,272,350 additional shares reserved for the exercise of outstanding options and warrants and 5,701,900 additional shares of common stock authorized for issuance and remaining to be granted under our stock option plans. Our principal stockholder can significantly influence all matters requiring the approval by our stockholders. As of June 30, 2008, Dr. Goldenberg, our Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer and Chief Medical Officer, together with certain members of his family, including Ms. Cynthia L. Sullivan, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is Dr. Goldenberg’s wife, and other affiliates, controlled the right to vote approximately 11% of our fully diluted common stock. As a result of this voting power, Dr. Goldenberg has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of substantially all matters that may be put to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of our directors. We have adopted anti-takeover provisions that may frustrate any unsolicited attempt to acquire our Company or remove or replace our directors and executive officers. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware corporate law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. For example, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company without the support of our Board of Directors. In addition, our Board of Directors may issue up to ten million shares of preferred stock and determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges, including voting and conversion rights, of these shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing an unsolicited change in control of our company, or could impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to effect certain corporate actions, including the replacement of incumbent directors and the completion of transactions opposed by the incumbent Board of Directors. The rights of the holders of our common stock would be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, which prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any “interested” stockholder (as defined in Section 203 of the DGCL) for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. There are limitations on the liability of our directors, and we may have to indemnify our officers and directors in certain instances. Our certificate of incorporation limits, to the maximum extent permitted under Delaware law, the personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of their fiduciary duties as directors. Our bylaws provide that we will indemnify our officers and directors and may indemnify our employees and other agents to the fullest extent permitted by law. These provisions may be in some respects 27 broader than the specific indemnification provisions under Delaware law. The indemnification provisions may require us, among other things, to indemnify such officers and directors against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers (other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature), to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified and to obtain directors’ and officers’ insurance. Section 145 of the DGCL provides that a corporation may indemnify a director, officer, employee or agent made or threatened to be made a party to an action by reason of the fact that he or she was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or was serving at the request of the corporation, against expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with such action if he or she acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. Delaware law does not permit a corporation to eliminate a director’s duty of care and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation have no effect on the availability of equitable remedies, such as injunction or rescission, for a director’s breach of the duty of care. We believe that our limitation of officer and director liability assists us to attract and retain qualified employees and directors. However, in the event an officer, a director or the board of directors commits an act that may legally be indemnified under Delaware law, we will be responsible to pay for such officer(s) or director(s) legal defense and potentially any damages resulting therefrom. Furthermore, the limitation on director liability may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders from instituting litigation against directors for breach of their fiduciary duties, even though such an action, if successful, might benefit our stockholders and us. Given the difficult environment and potential for incurring liabilities currently facing directors of publicly-held corporations, we believe that director indemnification is in our and our stockholders’ best interests because it enhances our ability to attract and retain highly qualified directors and reduce a possible deterrent to entrepreneurial decision-making. Nevertheless, limitations of director liability may be viewed as limiting the rights of stockholders, and the broad scope of the indemnification provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could result in increased expenses. Our board of directors believes, however, that these provisions will provide a better balancing of the legal obligations of, and protections for, directors and will contribute positively to the quality and stability of our corporate governance. Our board of directors has concluded that the benefit to stockholders of improved corporate governance outweighs any possible adverse effects on stockholders of reducing the exposure of directors to liability and broadened indemnification rights. We are exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Compliance with Section 404 requires substantial accounting expense and significant management efforts. Our testing, or the subsequent review by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls that would require us to remediate in a timely manner so as to be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 each year. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ GMS or other regulatory authorities that would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 28 We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. Until such time as we pay cash dividends our stockholders must rely on increases in our stock price for appreciation. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain future earnings to develop and commercialize our products and therefore we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Until such time as we determine to pay cash dividends on our common stock, our stockholders must rely on increases in our common stock’s market price for appreciation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 