Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward- looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. We have experienced dramatic declines in average selling prices for our semiconductor memory products which have adversely affected our business. Per megabit average selling prices for our semiconductor memory products decreased 34% in 2006 as compared to 2005. In recent years, we have also experienced annual decreases in per megabit average selling prices for our memory products including: 24% in 2005, 17% in 2003, 53% in 2002 and 60% in 2001. At times, average selling prices for our memory products have been below our costs. If average selling prices for our memory products decrease faster than we can decrease per megabit costs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Increased worldwide semiconductor memory production or lack of demand for semiconductor memory could lead to further declines in average selling prices. The transitions to smaller line-width process technologies and 300mm wafers in the industry have resulted in significant increases in the worldwide supply of semiconductor memory and will likely lead to future increases. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory also result from semiconductor memory fab capacity expansions, either by way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization or reallocation of other semiconductor production to semiconductor memory production. We and several of our competitors have announced plans to increase production through construction of new facilities or expansion of existing facilities. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory, if not accompanied with commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to reduce our per megabit manufacturing costs at the same rate as we have in the past. Historically, our gross margin has benefited from decreases in per unit manufacturing costs achieved through improvements in our manufacturing processes, including reducing the die size of our existing products. In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per unit manufacturing costs or reduce these costs at historical rates due to strategic product diversification decisions affecting product mix, the ever increasing complexity of manufacturing processes, changes in process technologies or products which inherently may require relatively larger die sizes. Per unit manufacturing costs may also be affected by the relatively smaller production quantities and shorter product lifecycles of Imaging and certain specialty memory products. Our formation of IMFT and the resulting plans to significantly increase our NAND Flash memory production has numerous risks. On January 6, 2006, we initiated operations of the IMFT joint venture with Intel and as a result we plan to significantly increase our NAND Flash production in future periods. The IMFT agreement and our NAND Flash strategy in general require substantial investment in capital expenditures for equipment and new facilities. It also requires significant investments in research and development as well as investments to grow and develop new operations at multiple sites. These investments involve numerous risks. We are required to devote a significant portion of our existing semiconductor manufacturing capacity to the production of NAND Flash instead of the Company’s other products. In conjunction with the IMFT agreement, we entered into a contract with Apple Corporation to provide NAND Flash products for an extended period of time at contractually determined prices. We currently have a relatively small share of the world-wide market for NAND Flash. Our NAND Flash investments and commitments involve numerous risks, and may include the following: · increasing our exposure to changes in average selling prices for NAND Flash; · difficulties in establishing new production operations at multiple locations; · increasing capital expenditures to increase production capacity and modify existing processes to produce NAND Flash; · increasing debt to finance future investments; 11 · diverting management’s attention from DRAM and CMOS Image sensor operations; · managing larger operations and facilities and employees in separate geographic areas; and · hiring and retaining key employees. Our NAND Flash strategy may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The future success of our Imaging business will be dependent on continued market acceptance of our products and the development, introduction and marketing of new Imaging products. Our Imaging business has grown rapidly in the recent periods. Sales of Imaging products increased substantially and represented 14% of our net sales in 2006. Our imaging products have higher gross margins than the recent overall gross margins from our memory products. As we continue to expand our imaging business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these growth rates or gross margins. The continued success of our Imaging products will depend on a number of factors, including: · development of products that maintain a technological advantage over the products of our competitors; · accurate prediction of market requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, output interface standards, power requirements, optical lens size, input standards and other requirements; · timely completion and introduction of new Imaging products that satisfy customer requirements; · timely achievement of design wins with prospective customers, as manufacturers may be reluctant to change their source of components due to the significant costs, time, effort and risk associated with qualifying a new supplier; and · efficient, cost-effective manufacturing as we transition to new products and higher volumes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory and CMOS image sensors sold, average selling prices and per unit manufacturing costs. To develop new product and process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and process technology. Cash and investments of IMFT and TECH are generally not available to finance our other operations. In addition to cash provided by operations, we have from time to time utilized external sources of financing. Depending on general market and economic conditions or other factors, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory market from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Qimonda AG ADS; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SanDisk Corporation; Toshiba Corporation and from emerging companies in Taiwan and China, who have announced plans to significantly expand the scale of their operations. Some of our competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities. Our competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs. These factors have significantly increased worldwide supply and put downward pressure on prices. 12 We face competition in the image sensor market from a number of suppliers of CMOS image sensors including MagnaChip Semiconductor Ltd.; OmniVision Technologies, Inc.; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; Sony Corporation; STMicroelectronics NV; Toshiba Corporation and from a number of suppliers of CCD image sensors Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd.; Sharp Corporation and Sony Corporation. In recent periods, a number of new companies have entered the CMOS image sensor market. Competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have greater presence in key markets, better access to certain customer bases, greater name recognition and more established strategic and financial relationships than the Company. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of Lexar. If we are unable to successfully combine and integrate the Lexar operations, we may not be able to realize many of the anticipated benefits of the merger, which could harm our results of operations. In order to realize the benefits of the merger, we will need to timely integrate the technology, operations, and personnel of Lexar. Integrating the two companies will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, even with proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt the businesses of Micron and Lexar. The challenges involved in this integration include, combining product and service offerings, optimizing inventory management over a broader distribution chain, and preserving customer, supplier and other important relationships of both Micron and Lexar. If we are not able to successfully integrate our operations with those of Lexar, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected by material weaknesses in Lexar’s internal controls. In Lexar’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005, and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006, Lexar reported material weaknesses with respect to its revenue recognition controls and inventory accounting controls. These control deficiencies resulted in audit adjustments to revenues, accounts receivable, cost of product revenues, deferred revenue, sales related accruals and inventory in Lexar’s 2005 consolidated financial statements. As a result of these material weaknesses, Lexar concluded in its Annual Report and Quarterly Report that its control over financial reporting was not effective as of the end of the periods covered by the reports. While prior to the close of the merger Lexar continued to take steps to remediate these material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that we will be able to completely remediate these material weaknesses such that we will be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We began consolidating the financial results of Lexar on June 22, 2006; however, due to the recency of the acquisition, the internal control over financial reporting relating to Lexar was exempt from testing and evaluation as of August 31, 2006. To the extent we do not remediate the material weaknesses, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may be adversely affected. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of the merger. Micron and Lexar had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes prior to the merger and both entities had provided significant valuation allowances against the tax benefit of such losses as well as certain tax credit carryforwards. Utilization of these net operating losses and credit carryforwards are dependent upon us achieving profitable results following the Lexar merger. As a consequence of the merger, as well as earlier issuances of common stock consummated by both companies and business combinations by the Company, utilization of the tax benefits of these carryforwards are subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The determination of the limitations is complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past transactions. Accordingly, some portion or all of these carryforwards may not be available to offset any future taxable income. Our resellers receive price protections which may have an adverse affect on our gross margins. Nearly all of our Lexar sales are made through resellers which traditionally have been provided price protection. In an environment of slower demand and abundant supply of products, price declines and channel promotions expenses are more likely to occur. Further, in this environment, high channel inventory may result in substantial price protection charges. These price protection charges have the effect of reducing gross sales and gross margin. We expect to continue to incur price protection charges for the foreseeable future due to competitive pricing pressures and, as a result, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. 13 Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are reported in U.S. dollars. Across our multi-national operations, there are transactions and balances denominated in other currencies, primarily the yen and euro. The Company estimates that, based on its assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar as of August 31, 2006, a 1% change in the exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar would result in foreign currency gains or losses of approximately $1 million for the yen and $1 million for the euro. In the event that the U.S. dollar weakens significantly compared to the yen or euro, our results of operations or financial condition will be adversely affected. New product development may be unsuccessful. We are developing new products that complement our traditional memory products or leverage their underlying design or process technology. We have made significant investments in product and process technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product development over the next several years. The process to develop NAND Flash, Imaging and certain specialty memory products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance, many times well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure design wins with our customers. There can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will recover costs of development efforts. An adverse determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. As is typical in the semiconductor and other high technology industries, from time to time, others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights. In this regard, we are engaged in litigation with Rambus, Inc. (“Rambus”) relating to certain of Rambus’ patents and certain of our claims and defenses. On August 28, 2000, we filed a complaint (subsequently amended) against Rambus in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking monetary damages and declaratory and injunctive relief. Among other things, our amended complaint alleges violation of federal antitrust laws, breach of contract, fraud, deceptive trade practices, and negligent misrepresentation. The complaint also seeks a declaratory judgment (a) that certain Rambus patents are not infringed by us, are invalid, and/or are unenforceable, (b) that we have an implied license to those patents, and (c) that Rambus is estopped from enforcing those patents against us. On February 15, 2001, Rambus filed an answer and counterclaim in Delaware denying that we are entitled to relief, alleging infringement of the eight Rambus patents named in our declaratory judgment claim, and seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. A number of other suits are pending in Europe alleging that certain of our SDRAM and DDR SDRAM products infringe various of Rambus’ country counterparts to its European patent 525 068, including: on September 1, 2000, Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor (Deutschland) GmbH in the District Court of Mannheim, Germany; on September 22, 2000, Rambus filed a complaint against us and Reptronic (a distributor of our products) in the Court of First Instance of Paris, France; and on September 29, 2000, we filed suit against Rambus in the Civil Court of Milan, Italy, alleging invalidity and non-infringement. In addition, on December 29, 2000, we filed suit against Rambus in the Civil Court of Avezzano, Italy, alleging invalidity and non-infringement of the Italian counterpart to European patent 1 004 956. Additionally, other suits are pending alleging that certain of our DDR SDRAM products infringe Rambus’ country counterparts to its European patent 1 022 642, including: on August 10, 2001, Rambus filed suit against us and Assitec (an electronics retailer) in the Civil Court of Pavia, Italy; and on August 14, 2001, Rambus filed suit against Micron Semiconductor (Deutschland) GmbH in the District Court of Mannheim, Germany. In the European suits against us, Rambus is seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. Subsequent to the filing of the various European suits, the European Patent Office declared Rambus’ 525 068 and 1 004 956 European patents invalid and revoked the patents. On January 13, 2006, Rambus filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging infringement of eighteen Rambus patents. We also are engaged in litigation with Tadahiro Ohmi (“Ohmi”). On June 2, 2005, Ohmi filed suit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (amended on August 31, 2005) alleging infringement of a single Ohmi patent. We are also engaged in litigation with Mosaid Technologies, Inc. (“Mosaid”). On July 24, 2006, we filed a declaratory judgment action against Mosaid in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California seeking, among other things, a court determination that fourteen Mosaid patents are invalid, not enforceable, and/or not infringed. On July 26, 2006, Mosaid filed a lawsuit against us and others in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging infringement of nine Mosaid patents. On August 31, 2006, Mosaid filed an amended complaint adding two additional Mosaid patents. On October 23, 2006, the California Court dismissed our declaratory judgment suit based on lack of jurisdiction. 14 Among other things, the above lawsuits pertain to certain of our SDRAM, DDR SDRAM, DDR2 SDRAM, RLDRAM, and image sensor products, which account for a significant portion of our net sales. A court determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes. We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require us to make one time or periodic payments. We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms. Allegations of anticompetitive conduct. On June 17, 2002, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California seeking information regarding an investigation by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) into possible antitrust violations in the “Dynamic Random Access Memory” or “DRAM” industry. We are cooperating fully and actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the DRAM industry. Our cooperation is pursuant to the terms of the DOJ’s Corporate Leniency Policy, which provides that in exchange for our full, continuing and complete cooperation in the pending investigation, we will not be subject to prosecution, fines or other penalties from the DOJ. Subsequent to the commencement of the DOJ investigation, a number of purported class action lawsuits have been filed against us and other DRAM suppliers. Eighteen cases have been filed in various federal district courts (two of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased DRAM directly from various DRAM suppliers during the period from April 1, 1999 through at least June 30, 2002. All of the cases have been transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California for consolidated proceedings. The complaints allege price-fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and seek treble monetary damages, costs, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct. On June 5, 2006, the Court granted plaintiffs’ motion to certify the proposed class of direct purchasers. Four cases have been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that indirectly purchased DRAM and/or products containing DRAM from various DRAM suppliers during the time period from April 1, 1999 through at least June 30, 2002. The complaints allege price fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and various state antitrust and unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs, interest and attorneys’ fees. In addition, at least sixty-two cases have been filed in various state and federal courts (five of which have been dismissed) asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of indirect purchasers of DRAM. Cases have been filed in the following states: Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida, Hawaii, Iowa, Kansas, Massachusetts, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin, and West Virginia, and also in the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The complaints purport to be on behalf of individuals and entities that indirectly purchased DRAM and/or products containing DRAM in the respective jurisdictions during various time periods ranging from 1999 through the filing date of the various complaints. The complaints allege violations of various jurisdictions’ antitrust, consumer protection and/or unfair competition laws relating to the sale and pricing of DRAM products and seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs, interest and attorneys’ fees. A number of these cases have been removed to federal court and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (San Francisco) for consolidated proceedings. Additionally, three cases have been filed in the following Canadian courts: Superior Court, District of Montreal, Province of Quebec; Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Ontario; and Supreme Court of British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, British Columbia. The substantive allegations in these cases are similar to those asserted in the cases filed in the United States. In addition, various states, through their Attorneys General, have filed suit against us and other DRAM manufacturers. On July 14, 2006, the following states filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California: Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. The amended complaint, filed September 8, 2006, alleges, among other things, violations of the Sherman Act, Cartwright Act, and certain other states’ consumer protection and antitrust laws and seeks damages, and injunctive and other relief. Additionally, on July 13, 2006, the 15 State of New York filed a similar suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. That case was subsequently transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California for pre-trial purposes. On October 11, 2006, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California seeking information regarding an investigation by the DOJ into possible antitrust violations in the “Static Random Access Memory” or “SRAM” industry. We believe that we are not a target of the investigation and we are cooperating fully and actively with the DOJ in its investigation of the SRAM industry. Subsequent to the issuance of subpoenas to the SRAM industry, a number of purported class action lawsuits have been filed against us and other SRAM suppliers. Two cases have been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that purchased SRAM directly from various SRAM suppliers during the period from January 1, 1998 through December 31, 2005. Additionally, eight cases have been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and one in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee asserting claims on behalf of a purported class of individuals and entities that indirectly purchased SRAM and/or products containing SRAM from various SRAM suppliers during the time period from January 1, 1998 through December 31, 2005. The complaints allege price fixing in violation of federal antitrust laws and state antitrust and unfair competition laws and seek treble monetary damages, restitution, costs, interest and attorneys’ fees. On May 5, 2004, Rambus filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San Francisco County) against us and other DRAM suppliers. The complaint alleges various causes of action under California state law including conspiracy to restrict output and fix prices on Rambus DRAM (“RDRAM”), and unfair competition. The complaint seeks treble damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, costs, and a permanent injunction enjoining the defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaints. We are unable to predict the outcome of these lawsuits and investigations. The final resolution of these alleged violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Allegations of violations of securities laws. On February 24, 2006, a putative class action complaint was filed against us and certain of our officers in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho alleging claims under Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. Four substantially similar complaints subsequently were filed in the same Court. The cases purport to be brought on behalf of a class of purchasers of our stock during the period February 24, 2001 to February 13, 2003. The five lawsuits have been consolidated and a consolidated amended class action complaint was filed on July 24, 2006. The complaint generally alleges violations of federal securities laws based on, among other things, claimed misstatements or omissions regarding alleged illegal price-fixing conduct. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, costs, and expenses. In addition, on March 23, 2006 a shareholder derivative action was filed in the Fourth District Court for the State of Idaho (Ada County), allegedly on behalf of and for our benefit, against certain of our current and former officers and directors. We were also named as a nominal defendant. The complaint is based on the same allegations of fact as in the securities class actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho and alleges breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and insider trading. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, restitution, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief, attorneys’ fees, costs, and expenses. The complaint is derivative in nature and does not seek monetary damages from us. However, we may be required, throughout the pendency of the action, to advance payment of legal fees and costs incurred by the defendants. In March 2006, following our announcement of a definitive agreement to acquire Lexar Media, Inc. (“Lexar”) in a stock-for-stock merger, four purported class action complaints were filed in the Superior Court for the State of California (Alameda County) on behalf of shareholders of Lexar against Lexar and its directors. Two of the complaints also name us as a defendant. The complaints allege that the defendants breached, or aided and abetted the breach of, fiduciary duties owed to Lexar shareholders by, among other things, engaging in self-dealing, failing to engage in efforts to obtain the highest price reasonably available, and failing to properly value Lexar in connection with a merger transaction between Lexar and us. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief preventing, or an order of rescission reversing, the merger, compensatory damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs. On May 19, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary injunction seeking to block the merger. On May 31, 2006, the Court denied the motion. 16 We are unable to predict the outcome of these cases. A court determination in any of the class actions against us could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Current economic and political conditions may harm our business. Global economic conditions and the effects of military or terrorist actions may cause significant disruptions to worldwide commerce. If these disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a decrease in corporate spending on information technology or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or ship our products. Global economic conditions may also affect consumer demand for devices that incorporate our products such as mobile phones, personal computers, flash memory cards and USB devices. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 67% of our consolidated net sales for 2006. In addition, we have manufacturing operations in Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico and Singapore. Our international sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: · currency exchange rate fluctuations, · export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on the transfer of funds, · political and economic instability, · problems with the transportation or delivery of our products, · issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest, · longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, and · compliance with trade and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions. These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per megabit manufacturing costs. Additionally, our control over operations at our IMFT, TECH and MP Mask joint ventures may be limited by our agreements with our partners. From time to time, we have experienced minor disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result of power outages or equipment failures. If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason, manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers’ requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers. This could result in a significant increase in manufacturing costs or loss of revenues or damage to customer relationships, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Disruptions in our supply of raw materials could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operations require raw materials that meet exacting standards. We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials. However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards. Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames and molding compound. Shortages may occur from time to time in the future. In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials. Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. If our supply of raw materials is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 17 Products that do not meet specifications or that contain, or are perceived by our customers to contain, defects or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because the design and production process for semiconductor memory is highly complex, it is possible that we may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses. If, despite design review, quality control and product qualification procedures, problems with nonconforming, defective or incompatible products occur after we have shipped such products, we could be adversely affected in several ways, including the following: · we may replace product or otherwise compensate customers for costs incurred or damages caused by defective or incompatible product, and · we may encounter adverse publicity, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products. We expect to make future acquisitions where advisable, which involve numerous risks. We expect to make future acquisitions where we believe it is advisable to enhance shareholder value. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, · increasing capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain facilities, · increasing debt to finance any acquisition, · diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations, · managing larger operations and facilities and employees in separate geographic areas, and · hiring and retaining key employees. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and future acquisitions may not be successful and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Item 