Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in Community Bank System, Inc. common stock involves risk. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including, but not limited to: • Changes in securities analysts’ expectations of financial performance • Volatility of stock market prices and volumes • Incorrect information or speculation • Changes in industry valuations • Interest rate changes • Variations in operating results from general expectations • Actions taken against the Company by various regulatory agencies • Changes in authoritative accounting guidance by Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies • Changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor and healthcare cost trend rates, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations The Company’s main markets are located in the states of New York and Pennsylvania. A prolonged economic downturn in these markets could negatively impact the Company. The Company’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are beyond the Company’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. Changes to these laws could affect the Company’s ability to deliver or expand its services and diminish the value of its business. The business strategy of the Company includes growth through acquisition. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include among other things; the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired banks and branches, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position, and the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. The Company relies on communication, information, operating and financial control systems from third-party service providers. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. Readers are cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results and that the above list should not be considered to be a complete list. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 7 