Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. We have experienced dramatic declines in average selling prices for our semiconductor memory products which have adversely affected our business. For 2010 average selling prices of NAND products decreased 18% and average selling prices of DRAM products increased 28%. The increase in average selling prices for DRAM products is the first increase since 2004. For 2009, average selling prices of DRAM and NAND Flash products decreased 52% and 56%, respectively, as compared to 2008. For 2008, average selling prices of DRAM and NAND Flash products decreased 51% and 67%, respectively, as compared to 2007. For 2007, average selling prices of DRAM and NAND Flash products decreased 23% and 56%, respectively, as compared to 2006. In some prior periods, average selling prices for our memory products have been below our manufacturing costs. If average selling prices for our memory p roducts decrease faster than we can decrease per gigabit costs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to reduce our per gigabit manufacturing costs at the rate average selling prices decline. Our gross margins are dependent upon continuing decreases in per gigabit manufacturing costs achieved through improvements in our manufacturing processes, including reducing the die size of our existing products. In future periods, we may be unable to reduce our per gigabit manufacturing costs at sufficient levels to improve or maintain gross margins. Factors that may limit our ability to reduce costs include, but are not limited to, strategic product diversification decisions affecting product mix, the increasing complexity of manufacturing processes, and changes in process technologies or products that inherently may require relatively larger die sizes. Per gigabit manufacturing costs may also be affected by the relatively smaller production quantities and shorter product lifecycles of certain specialty memory products. The semiconductor memory industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory market from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.; SanDisk Corporation; Spansion Inc. and Toshiba Corporation. Some of our competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities. Our competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs. The transitions to smaller line-width process technologies and 300mm wafers in the industry have resulted in significant increases in the worldwide supply of semicon ductor memory. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory also result from semiconductor memory fab capacity expansions, either by way of new facilities, increased capacity utilization or reallocation of other semiconductor production to semiconductor memory production. As a result of improving conditions in the semiconductor memory market in recent periods, our competitors may increase capital expenditures resulting in future increases in worldwide supply. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor memory, if not accompanied with commensurate increases in demand, would lead to further declines in average selling prices for our products and would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 12 The inability to reach an acceptable agreement with our TECH joint venture partners regarding the future of TECH after its shareholders’ agreement expires in April 2011 could have a significant adverse effect on our DRAM production and results of operation. Since 1998, we have participated in TECH, a semiconductor memory manufacturing joint venture in Singapore among us, Canon Inc. (“Canon”) and Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”). As of September 2, 2010, the ownership of TECH was held approximately 87% by us, approximately 10% by Canon and approximately 3% by HP. The financial results of TECH are included in our consolidated financial statements. In the fourth quarter of 2010, TECH accounted for 48% of our total DRAM wafer production. The shareholders’ agreement for TECH expires in April 2011. In the first quarter of 2010, TECH received a notice from HP that it does not intend to extend the TECH joint venture beyond April 2011. We have been in discussi ons with HP and Canon to reach a resolution of the matter. However, there remain wide gaps between our position and those of HP and Canon. The parties’ inability to reach a resolution of this matter prior to April 2011 would, per the terms of the shareholders’ agreement, result in the sale of TECH’s assets. As of September 2, 2010, the carrying value of TECH’s net assets was $1.1 billion and in the event of dissolution our loss could be a significant portion of this amount. In addition, the parties’ inability to reach a resolution prior to April 2011 could result in the sale of TECH’s assets and could require repayment of TECH’s credit facility ($348 million outstanding as of September 2, 2010). The sale of TECH’s assets per the terms of the shareholders’ agreement may have a significant adverse impact on our DRAM production and results of operation. Integration of our acquired Numonyx business may disrupt operations and result in significant costs. The integration of our acquired Numonyx business is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, even with proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt the business of Numonyx and our other operations. Realizing the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend in part on the timely integration of technology, operations, and personnel. If we are unable to successfully integrate Numonyx with our operations in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: · combining product and service offerings; · coordinating research and development activities to enhance the development and introduction of new products and services; · preserving customer, supplier and other important relationships of both Micron and Numonyx and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; · managing supply chains and product channels effectively during the period of combining operations; · minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; · additional expenses associated with the acquisition and integration of Numonyx; · retaining key employees; · managing new business structures; and · coordinating and combining overseas operations, relationships and facilities, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by geographic distance and local laws and regulations. 13 The downturn in the worldwide economy may harm our business. The downturn in the worldwide economy had an adverse effect on our business. A continuation or deterioration of depressed economic conditions could have an even greater adverse effect on our business. Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that incorporate our products, such as personal computers and other computing and networking products, mobile devices, Flash memory cards and USB devices. Reduced demand for our products could result in continued market oversupply and significant decreases in our average selling prices. A continuation of current negative conditions in worldwide credit markets would limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. In addition, we may experie nce losses on our holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other parties. Difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on the volume of semiconductor memory sold, average selling prices and per unit manufacturing costs. To develop new product and process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and process technology. We expect that capital spending will be approximately $2.4 billion to $2.9 billion for 2011. The actual amount in 2011 will vary depending on funding participation by joint venture partners and market conditions. As of September 2, 2010, we had cash and equivalents of $2,913 million, of which $601 millio n consisted of cash and investments of IM Flash and TECH that would generally not be available to finance our other operations. In the past we have utilized external sources of financing when needed. As a result of the downturn in general economic conditions, and the adverse conditions in the credit markets, it may be difficult to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows or find other sources of financing to fund our operations; make adequate capital investments to remain competitive in terms of technology development and cost efficiency; or access capital markets. Our inability to do the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our joint ventures and strategic partnerships involve numerous risks. We have entered into partnering arrangements to manufacture products and develop new manufacturing process technologies and products. These arrangements include our IM Flash NAND Flash joint ventures with Intel, our Inotera DRAM joint venture with Nanya, our TECH DRAM joint venture, our MP Mask joint venture with Photronics, our Transform joint venture with Origin Energy and our CMOS image sensor wafer supply agreement with Aptina. These joint ventures and strategic partnerships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations. These risks include the following: · our interests could diverge from our partners in the future or we may not be able to agree with partners on ongoing manufacturing and operational activities, or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in our joint venture; · we may experience difficulties in transferring technology to joint ventures; · we may experience difficulties and delays in ramping production at joint ventures; · our control over the operations of our joint ventures is limited; · recognition of our share of potential Inotera, Aptina and Transform losses in our results of operation; · due to financial constraints, our partners may be unable to meet their commitments to us or our joint ventures and may pose credit risks for our transactions with them; · due to differing business models or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in capital contributions to our joint ventures which may result in us increasing our capital contributions to such ventures resulting in additional cash expenditures by us; for example, our contributions to IM Flash Singapore in 2010 and the first two months of 2011 totaled $128 million and $392 million, respectively, while Intel’s contributions totaled $38 million and $0, respectively; 14 · the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; · cash flows may be inadequate to fund increased capital requirements; · these operations may be less cost-efficient as a result of underutilized capacity; · changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our partners; and · political or economic instability may occur in the countries where our joint ventures and/or partners are located. If our joint ventures and strategic partnerships are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. Our ownership interest in Inotera involves numerous risks. Our 29.9% ownership interest in Inotera involves numerous risks including the following: · risks relating to actions that may be taken or initiated by Qimonda AG’s (“Qimonda”) bankruptcy administrator relating to Qimonda’s transfer to us of its Inotera shares; · we may experience continued difficulties in transferring technology to Inotera; · we may experience continued difficulties and delays in ramping production at Inotera; · Inotera’s ability to meet its ongoing obligations; · costs associated with manufacturing inefficiencies resulting from underutilized capacity; · difficulties in converting Inotera production from Qimonda’s trench technology to our stack technology; · uncertainties around the timing and amount of wafer supply we will receive under the supply agreement; and · obligations during the technology transition period to procure product based on a competitor’s technology which may be difficult to sell and to provide support for such product, with respect to which we have limited technological understanding. In connection with our ownership equity interest in Inotera, we have rights and obligations to purchase 50% of the wafer production of Inotera. In 2010, we purchased $693 million of DRAM products from Inotera. An adverse outcome relating to allegations of anticompetitive conduct could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. On May 5, 2004, Rambus, Inc. (“Rambus”) filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California (San Francisco County) against us and other DRAM suppliers alleging that the defendants harmed Rambus by engaging in concerted and unlawful efforts affecting Rambus DRAM (“RDRAM”) by eliminating competition and stifling innovation in the market for computer memory technology and computer memory chips. Rambus’ complaint alleges various causes of action under California state law including, among other things, a conspiracy to restrict output and fix prices, a conspiracy to monopolize, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and unfair competition. Rambus alleges that it is entitled to actual damages of more than a billion dollars and seeks joint and several liability, treble damages, punitive damages, a permanent injunction enjoining the defendants from the conduct alleged in the complaint, interest, and attorneys’ fees and costs. A trial date has not been scheduled. (See “Item 1. Legal Proceedings” for additional details on this case and other Rambus matters pending in the U.S. and Europe.) On September 24, 2010, Oracle America Inc. (“Oracle”), successor to Sun Microsystems, a DRAM purchaser that opted-out of a direct purchaser class action suit that was settled, filed suit against us in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges DRAM price-fixing and other violations of federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws based on purported conduct for the period from August 1, 1998 through at least June 15, 2002. Oracle is seeking joint and several damages, trebled, as well as restitution, disgorgement, attorneys’ fees, costs and injunctive relief. 15 We are unable to predict the outcome of these lawsuits. An adverse court determination in any of these lawsuits alleging violations of antitrust laws could result in significant liability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. An adverse determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. On January 13, 2006, Rambus filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Rambus alleges that certain of our DDR2, DDR3, RLDRAM, and RLDRAM II products infringe as many as fourteen Rambus patents and seeks monetary damages, treble damages, and injunctive relief. The accused products account for a significant portion of our net sales. On June 2, 2006, we filed an answer and counterclaim against Rambus alleging, among other things, antitrust and fraud claims. On January 9, 2009, in another lawsuit involving us and Rambus and involving allegations by Rambus of patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, Judge Robinson entered an opinion in favor of us holding that Rambu s had engaged in spoliation and that the twelve Rambus patents in the suit were unenforceable against us. Rambus subsequently appealed the Delaware Court’s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. That appeal is pending. Subsequently, the Northern District of California Court stayed a trial of the patent phase of the Northern District of California case pending the outcome of the appeal of the Delaware Court’s spoliation decision or further order of the California Court. (See “Item 1. Legal Proceedings” for additional details on this lawsuit and other Rambus matters pending in the U.S. and Europe.) On March 6, 2009, Panavision Imaging LLC filed suit against us and Aptina Imaging Corporation, then a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges that certain of our and Aptina’s image sensor products infringe four Panavision Imaging U.S. patents and seeks injunctive relief, damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs. We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us. A court determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require us to make one time or periodic payments. We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms. Products that fail to meet specifications, are defective or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us. Products that do not meet specifications or that contain, or are perceived by our customers to contain, defects or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Because the design and production process for semiconductor memory is highly complex, it is possible that we may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses. If, despite design review, quality control and product qualification procedures, problems with nonconforming, defective or incompatible products occur after we have shipped such products, we could be adversely affected in several ways, including the following: · we may be required to replace product or otherwise compensate customers for costs incurred or damages caused by defective or incompatible product, and · we may encounter adverse publicity, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products. 16 There are a number of risks and uncertainties related to Numonyx’s former joint venture with Hynix. In connection with our purchase of Numonyx on May 7, 2010, we acquired a 20.7% noncontrolling equity interest in Hynix-Numonyx Semiconductor Ltd. (the “Hynix JV”), a joint venture with Hynix Semiconductor, Inc. (“Hynix”) and Hynix Semiconductor (WUXI) Limited. The change in control of Numonyx gave Hynix the right to purchase all of our equity interests in the Hynix JV. Hynix exercised its right to purchase our interest in the Hynix JV and consummated the equity transfer on August 31, 2010 for $423 million. A significant portion of Numonyx's sales are dependent upon sales of products supplied to us by the Hynix JV pursuant to a supply agreement. On July 29, 2010, we entered into a new supply agreement with Hynix, which provides for the continued supply of products through September 30, 2011 at market rates. Pricing under the new agreement is not anticipated to be as favorable as pricing under the JV supply agreement that existed prior to the sale of our ownership interest in the Hynix JV. Concurrent with the Numonyx acquisition, we entered into agreements with STMicroelectronics N.V. and DBS Bank Ltd. (“DBS”) that require us to guarantee an outstanding $250 million loan, due in periodic installments from 2014 through 2016, made by DBS to the Hynix JV. Under the agreements, on August 31, 2010, we deposited $250 million of proceeds from the sale of our interest in the Hynix JV into a pledged account at DBS to collateralize our obligations under the guarantee of the loan. The amount on deposit in the DBS account is accounted for as restricted cash on our balance sheet. The amount on deposit and our guarantee decrease as payments are made by the Hynix JV against the loan. 60; There can be no assurance that the Hynix JV will not default under such loan. We may make future acquisitions and alliances, which involve numerous risks. Acquisitions and the formation of alliances, such as joint ventures and other partnering arrangements, involve numerous risks including the following: · difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of acquired or newly formed entities; · increasing capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain facilities; · increasing debt to finance an acquisition or formation of a new business; · diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations; · managing larger or more complex operations and facilities and employees in separate and diverse geographic areas; and · hiring and retaining key employees. Acquisitions of, or alliances with, high-technology companies are inherently risky, and future transactions may not be successful and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. New product development may be unsuccessful. We are developing new products that complement our traditional memory products or leverage their underlying design or process technology. We have made significant investments in product and process technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product development over the next several years. The process to develop DRAM, NAND Flash, NOR Flash and certain specialty memory products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance, many times well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure design wins with our customers. There can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture new products, that we will be able t o successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will allow us to recover costs of development efforts. Our debt level is higher than compared to historical periods. We currently have a higher level of debt compared to historical periods. As of September 2, 2010 we had $2.4 billion of debt, net of discounts of $247 million. We may need to incur additional debt in the future. Our debt level could adversely impact us. For example it could: 17 · make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service; · limit our future ability to raise funds for capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other general corporate requirements; · increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and semiconductor memory industry conditions; · expose us to fluctuations in interest rates with respect to that portion of our debt which is at a variable rate of interest; and · require us to make additional investments in joint ventures to maintain compliance with financial covenants. Several of our credit facilities, one of which was modified during 2009 and another of which was modified in 2010, have covenants that require us to maintain minimum levels of tangible net worth and cash and investments. As of September 2, 2010, we were in compliance with our debt covenants. If we are unable to continue to be in compliance with our debt covenants, or obtain waivers, an event of default could be triggered, which, if not cured, could cause the maturity of other borrowings to be accelerated and become due and currently payable. Covenants in our debt instruments may obligate us to repay debt, increase contributions to our TECH joint venture and limit our ability to obtain financing. Our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt may be affected by economic or business conditions or other events. As of September 2, 2010, our 87% owned TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd., (“TECH”) subsidiary, had $348 million outstanding under a credit facility with covenants that, among other requirements, establish certain liquidity, debt service coverage and leverage ratios for TECH and restrict TECH’s ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and acquire or dispose of assets. If TECH does not comply with these debt covenants and restrictions, this debt may be deemed to be in default and the debt declared payable. There can be no assurance that TECH will be able to comply with its covenants. 60; Additionally, if TECH is unable to repay its borrowings when due, the lenders under TECH’s credit facility could proceed against substantially all of TECH’s assets. In the first quarter of 2010, TECH amended certain of its debt covenants under the credit facility. We have guaranteed 100% of the outstanding amount borrowed under TECH’s credit facility. If TECH’s debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due. Existing covenant restrictions may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. To avoid covenant defaults we may be required to repay debt obligations or make additional contributions to TECH, all of which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are reported in U.S. dollars. Across our multi-national operations, there are transactions and balances denominated in other currencies, primarily the Singapore dollar, euro and yen. We recorded net losses from changes in currency exchange rates of $23 million for 2010, $30 million for 2009 and of $25 million for 2008. We estimate that, based on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar as of September 2, 2010, a 1% change in the exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar would expose us to foreign currency gains or losses of approximately U.S. $2 million for the Singapore dollar and U.S. $1 million for the euro and the yen. In the event that the U.S. dollar weakens significantly compared to the Singapore dollar, euro and yen, our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. 18 The limited availability certain raw materials or capital equipment could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operations require raw materials that meet exacting standards. We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials. However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards. In some cases, materials are provided by a single supplier. Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, lead frames and molding compound. Shortages may occur from time to time in the future. In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials. Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past. If our supply of raw materials is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our operations are dependent on our ability to procure advanced semiconductor equipment that enables the transition to lower cost manufacturing processes. For certain key types of equipment, including equipment scanners, we are dependent on a single supplier. In recent periods we have experienced difficulties in obtaining some equipment on a timely basis due to the supplier’s limited capacity. Our inability to obtain this equipment timely could adversely affect our ability to transition to next generation manufacturing processes and reduce costs. Delays in obtaining equipment could also impede our ability to ramp production at new facilities and increase our overall costs of the ramp. If we are unable to obtain advanced semiconduc tor equipment timely, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may incur additional material restructure charges in future periods. In response to a severe downturn in the semiconductor memory industry and global economic conditions, we implemented restructure initiatives that resulted in net charges of $70 million in 2009 and $33 million in 2008. The restructure initiatives included shutting down our 200mm wafer fabrication facility in Boise, suspending the production ramp of a new fabrication facility in Singapore and other personnel cost reductions. We may need to implement further restructure initiatives in future periods. As a result of these initiatives, we could incur restructure charges, lose production output, lose key personnel and experience disruptions in our operations and difficulties in delivering products timely. We face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 83% of our consolidated net sales for 2010. In addition, a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States. In particular, a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are concentrated in Singapore. Our international sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on the transfer of funds; · political and economic instability; · problems with the transportation or delivery of our products; · issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest; · longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · compliance with trade, technical standards and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions; · changes in economic policies of foreign governments; and · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 19 Our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited. We have a valuation allowance against substantially all U.S. net deferred tax assets. As of September 2, 2010, our federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $2.4 billion, $2.0 billion and $290 million, respectively. If not utilized, substantially all of our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will expire in 2022 to 2029 and the foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2015. As of September 2, 2010, our federal and state tax credit carryforwards were $188 million and $204 million respectively. If not utilized, substantially all of our federal and state tax credit carryforwards will expire in 2013 to 2030. As a consequence of prior business acquisitions, utilization of the tax benefits for some of the tax carryforwards is subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and some portion or all of these carryforwards may not be available to offset any future taxable income. The determination of the limitations is complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past transactions. If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per gigabit manufacturing costs. Additionally, our control over operations at our IM Flash, TECH, Inotera, MP Mask and Transform joint ventures is limited by our agreements with our partners. From time to time, we have experienced minor disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment and equipment failures. If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason, manufacturi ng yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers’ requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers. This could result in a significant increase in manufacturing costs or loss of revenues or damage to customer relationships, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Consolidation of industry participants and governmental assistance to some of our competitors may contribute to uncertainty in the semiconductor memory industry and negatively impact our ability to compete. In recent years, manufacturing supply has significantly exceeded customer demand resulting in significant declines in average selling prices of DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products and substantial operating losses by us and our competitors. The operating losses as well as limited access to sources of financing have led to the deterioration in the financial condition of a number of industry participants. Some of our competitors may try to enhance their capacity and lower their cost structure through consolidation. Consolidation of industry competitors could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, some governments have provided, or are considering, significant financial assistance for some of our competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 