Item 1A. Risk Factors Community Bank System, Inc. and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Adverse experience with these or other risks could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability, assets and liabilities The Company’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and polices of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (3) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income could be adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect our earnings. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposit and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the result of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented The capital, credit and financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption for the last two years. These conditions have had significant adverse effects on our national and local economies, including declining real estate values, a widespread tightening of the availability of credit, illiquidity in certain securities markets, increasing loan delinquencies, declining consumer confidence and spending, and a reduction of manufacturing and service business activity. These conditions have also adversely affected the stock market generally, and have contributed to significant declines in the trading prices of stocks of financial institutions. Management does not expect these difficult market conditions to improve over the short term, and a continuation or worsening of these conditions could exacerbate their adverse effects. There can be no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will stabilize the U.S. economy and financial system The U.S. Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) in response to the impact of the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets on the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation that are intended to address these conditions. In addition, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) in an effort to save and create jobs, stimulate the U.S. economy and promote long-term growth and stability. There can be no assurance that EESA or ARRA will achieve their intended purposes. The failure of EESA or ARRA to achieve their intended purposes could result in a continuation or worsening of current economic and market conditions, and this could adversely effect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and/or the trading price of Company stock. 8 Regional economic factors may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business The Company’s main markets are located in the states of New York and Pennsylvania. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. A prolonged economic downturn in these markets could negatively impact the Company. The allowance for loan loss may be insufficient The Company’s business depends on the creditworthiness of its customers. The Company periodically reviews the allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. There is no certainty that the allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations and regulatory practices The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. The bank holding company is subject to regulation by the FRB and the bank subsidiary is subject to regulation by the OCC. These regulations affect deposit and lending practices, capital levels and structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. In addition, the non-bank subsidiaries are engaged in providing investment management and insurance brokerage service, which industries are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. Changes to the regulatory laws governing these businesses could affect the Company’s ability to deliver or expand its services and adversely impact its operations and financial condition. There is the potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, increasing costs, limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer including restrictions on associated fee revenue, such as overdraft fees and interchange fees, and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance. Among other things legislation is pending in Congress to create a new consumer protection agency and authorize greater supervisory powers for the Federal Reserve Board. We cannot predict the full impact on our operations and financial condition of the various legislative and regulatory reform initiatives. FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased and may increase further in the future The FDIC’s reserve fund has declined over the past year due to costs associated with bank failures and is expected to continue to decline in the future. In addition, the FDIC basic insurance coverage limit was temporarily increased to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. These increases have increased the aggregate amount of deposits that the FDIC insures and thus have exposed the FDIC deposit insurance fund to potentially greater losses. The FDIC has adopted a plan to restore the reserve fund to the required level by increasing the deposit insurance assessment rates that it currently charges to insured depository institutions. Any increase will have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations in 2010 and in future years, and if the FDIC is required to increase its deposit insurance assessment rate beyond the levels currently contemplated, the adverse impact will be greater. Changes in the equity markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for other fee-based services Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for fee-based services. Revenue from the wealth management and benefit plan administration businesses depend in large part on the level of assets under management and administration. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investment, as well as lower asset values can reduce our level of assets under management and administration and thereby decrease our investment management and administration revenues. Mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility Mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, and real estate and refinancing activity. In lower interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will tend to increase. This has the effect of increasing fee income, but could adversely impact the estimated fair value of our mortgage servicing rights as the rate of loan prepayments increase. In higher interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will generally be lower. This has the effect of decreasing fee income. 9 The Company depends on dividends from its banking subsidiary for cash revenues, but those dividends are subject to restrictions The ability of the company to satisfy its obligations and pay cash dividends to its shareholders is primarily dependent on the earnings of and dividends from the subsidiary bank. However, payment of dividends by the bank subsidiary is limited by dividend restrictions and capital requirements imposed by bank regulations. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank had the capacity to pay up to $5.3 million in dividends to the Company without regulatory approval. The ability to pay dividends is also subject to the continued payment of interest that the Company owes on its subordinated junior debentures. As of December 31, 2009 the Company had $102 million of subordinated junior debentures outstanding. The Company has the right to defer payment of interest on the subordinated junior debentures for a period not exceeding 20 quarters although the Company has not done so to date. If the Company defers interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures, it will be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from paying cash dividends on the common stock until all deferred interest has been paid and interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures resumes. The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and result of operations The business strategy of the Company includes growth through acquisition. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include among other things: the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. The Company may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio The Company may be required to record impairment charges in respect to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resale of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse actions by regulators, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment or a decision to change the operations or dispose of an operating unit could have a negative effect on the investment portfolio, goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods. During 2009 rating agencies imposed a number of downgrades and credit watches on certain securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio, which contributed to the decline in fair value of such securities. Any further downgrades and credit watches may contribute to additional declines in the fair value of these securities. In addition, the measurement of the fair value of these securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of the factors contributing to the measurement. Market volatility makes measurement of the fair value even more difficult and subjective. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in the investment portfolio is determined to be other than temporary, and the loss is related to credit factors, the Company could be required to recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made. The Company relies on third party service providers The Company relies on communication, information, operating and financial control systems from third-party service providers. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that their impact can be adequately mitigated. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions The Company owns common stock of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”) in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables it to borrow funds under the FHLBNY advance program. The carrying value of the Company’s FHLBNY common stock was $38.4 million as of December 31, 2009. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York. Several members have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirement or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches are suspending dividends, cutting dividend payments, and not buying back excess FHLB stock that members hold. FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances in the future. The most severe problems in FHLB have been at some of the other FHLB branches. Nonetheless, the 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the systems’ debt, other FHLB branches can be called upon to make the payment. 10 The Company continually encounters technological change and may have to continue to invest in technological improvements The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. In late 2009, the Company made a decision to change its core banking system from an out-sourced, third-party provided system to an in-house, integrated solution expected to be implemented by the third quarter of 2010. Although the Company expects to benefit from the enhanced functionality and process efficiencies of the new system, the planned conversion does include meaningful execution risk. Trading activity in the Company’s common stock could result in material price fluctuations The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors including, but not limited to: · Changes in securities analysts’ expectations of financial performance · Volatility of stock market prices and volumes · Incorrect information or speculation · Changes in industry valuations · Variations in operating results from general expectations · Actions taken against the Company by various regulatory agencies · Changes in authoritative accounting guidance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies · Changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor and healthcare cost trend rates, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations · Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events Readers are cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results and that the above list should not be considered to be a complete list. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 