Item 1A. Risk Factors There are risks inherent in the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Adverse experience with these could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability, assets and liabilities The Company’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (3) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income could be adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect our earnings. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposit and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. The capital, credit and financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption during the last three years. These conditions have had significant adverse effects on our national and local economies, including declining real estate values, a widespread tightening of the availability of credit, illiquidity in certain securities markets, increasing loan delinquencies, declining consumer confidence and spending, and a reduction of manufacturing and service business activity. Management does not expect these difficult market conditions to improve over the short term, and a continuation or worsening of these conditions could exacerbate their adverse effects: · A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered · A decrease in the value of loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; and · An increase in the number of customers who may become delinquent or default on their loans The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. The Company, as a bank holding company is subject to regulation by the FRB and its banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the OCC. These regulations affect deposit and lending practices, capital levels and structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. In addition, the non-bank subsidiaries are engaged in providing investment management and insurance brokerage service, which industries are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. Such regulators govern the activities in which the Company and its subsidiaries may engage. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Company and its operations. Changes to the regulatory laws governing these businesses could affect the Company’s ability to deliver or expand its services and adversely impact its operations and financial condition. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on the Company On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act implements a variety of far-reaching changes and has been called the most sweeping reform of the financial services industry since the Great Depression. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will directly affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business, including: · Imposition of higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements, and numerous other requirements on “systemically significant institutions,” currently defined to include, among other things, all bank holding companies with assets of at least $50 billion (although the Company does not fall within this definition of systemically significant institution, these standards may apply); · Mandates requiring the FRB to establish standards for determining whether interchange fees charged by certain financial institutions are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by such institutions; · Repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; · Increase in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more and increases in the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF; · Application to bank holding companies above $15 billion in assets of regulatory capital requirements similar to those applied to banks, which requirements exclude, on a phase-out basis, all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred securities from Tier 1 capital (except for preferred stock issued under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital as long as it remains outstanding); and · Establishment of new rules and restrictions regarding the origination of mortgages. 10 The Dodd-Frank Act creates the new CFPB to oversee the principal federal consumer protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Truth in Savings Act. Institutions which have assets of $10 billion or less, will continue to be supervised in this area by their primary federal regulators. The FRB will also be adopting a rule addressing interchange fees for debit card transactions that is expected to lower fee income generated from this source. Although technically this rule will only apply to institutions with assets in excess of $10 billion, it is expected that smaller institutions, such as the Bank, may also be impacted. The Company contracts with large debit card processors with which management of the Company will have relatively weak bargaining power. It is possible these processors, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, will earn lower revenues, leaving less revenue per transaction for the Company. The FRB has until July 2011 to complete its regulations, so the timing and ultimate extent of impact to the Company is unknown. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act significantly curtails the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that is currently enjoyed by federal savings associations and national banks by requiring that a state consumer financial law prevent or significantly interfere with the exercise of a federal savings association’s or national bank’s powers before it can be preempted, mandating that any preemption decision be made on a case by case basis rather than a blanket rule, and ending the applicability of preemption to subsidiaries and affiliates of national banks and federal savings associations. As a result, the Company may now be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where it does business, and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. Many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known, including mandates requiring the FRB to establish compensation guidelines covering regulated financial institutions. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes, may impact the profitability of the Company’s business activities, may require that it change certain of its business practices, may materially affect its business model or affect retention of key personnel, may require us to raise additional regulatory capital and could expose the Company to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect its ability to conduct its business as previously conducted or its results of operations or financial condition. The Company may be subject to more stringent capital requirements As discussed above, the Dodd-Frank Act would require the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank holding companies. Under the legislation, the federal banking agencies would be required to develop capital requirements that address systemically-risky activities. The capital rules must address, at a minimum, risks arising from significant volumes of activity in derivatives, securities products, financial guarantees, securities borrowing and lending and repurchase agreements; concentrations in assets for which reported values are based on models; and concentrations in market share for any activity that would substantially disrupt financial markets if the institutions were forced to unexpectedly cease the activity. These requirements, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or could require it to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. Regional economic factors may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business The Company’s main markets are located in the states of New York and Pennsylvania. Most of the Company’s customers are individuals and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. A prolonged economic downturn in these markets could negatively impact the Company. 11 The Company faces strong competition from other banks and financial institutions, which can hurt its business The Company conducts its banking operations in a number of competitive local markets. In those markets, it competes against commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loans associations, credit unions, mortgage banks, brokerage firms, and other financial institutions. Many of these entities are larger organizations with significantly greater financial, management and other resources than the Company has, and they offer the same or similar banking or financial services that it offers in its markets. Moreover, new and existing competitors may expand their business in or into the Company’s markets. Increased competition in its markets may result in a reduction in loans, deposits and other sources of its revenues. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The allowance for loan loss may be insufficient The Company’s business depends on the creditworthiness of its customers. The Company periodically reviews the allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, the Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease its net income. It is possible that over time the allowance for loan losses will be inadequate to cover credit losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased and may increase further in the future The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. In November 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. In addition, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate as compared to prior periods. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact the Company’s earnings. Changes in the equity markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for other fee-based services Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for fee-based services. Revenue from the wealth management and benefit plan administration businesses depend in large part on the level of assets under management and administration. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investment, as well as lower asset values, can reduce our level of assets under management and administration and thereby decrease our investment management and administration revenues. Mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility Mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, and real estate and refinancing activity. In lower interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will tend to increase. This has the effect of increasing fee income, but could adversely impact the estimated fair value of our mortgage servicing rights as the rate of loan prepayments increase. In higher interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will generally be lower. This has the effect of decreasing fee income opportunities. The Company depends on dividends from its banking subsidiary for cash revenues, but those dividends are subject to restrictions The ability of the company to satisfy its obligations and pay cash dividends to its shareholders is primarily dependent on the earnings of and dividends from the subsidiary bank. However, payment of dividends by the bank subsidiary is limited by dividend restrictions and capital requirements imposed by bank regulations. The ability to pay dividends is also subject to the continued payment of interest that the Company owes on its subordinated junior debentures. As of December 31, 2010 the Company had $102 million of subordinated junior debentures outstanding. The Company has the right to defer payment of interest on the subordinated junior debentures for a period not exceeding 20 quarters, although the Company has not done so to date. If the Company defers interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures, it will be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from paying cash dividends on the common stock until all deferred interest has been paid and interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures resumes. 12 The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and result of operations The business strategy of the Company includes growth through acquisition. The Company has announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire The Wilber Corporation, parent company of the Wilber National Bank in Oneonta, New York. The acquisition is expected to close during the second quarter of 2011. This acquisition and any other future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include among other things: the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company may deteriorate after the acquisition agreement is signed or after the acquisition closes. The Company may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio The Company may be required to record impairment charges in respect to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resale of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse actions by regulators, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment or a decision to change the operations or dispose of an operating unit could have a negative effect on the investment portfolio, goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods. During 2010 rating agencies imposed a number of downgrades and credit watches on certain securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio, which contributed to the decline in fair value of such securities. Any additional downgrades and credit watches may contribute to further declines in the fair value of these securities. In addition, the measurement of the fair value of these securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of the factors contributing to the measurement. Market volatility makes measurement of the fair value even more difficult and subjective. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in the investment portfolio is determined to be other than temporary, and the loss is related to credit factors, the Company could be required to recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or security breach The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s online banking system, its general ledger, and its deposit and loan servicing and origination systems. The Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems; however, any such failure, interruption or security breach could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions The Company owns common stock of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”) in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables it to borrow funds under the FHLBNY advance program. The carrying value of the Company’s FHLBNY common stock was $37.3 million as of December 31, 2010. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York. Several branches have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirement or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches have suspended dividends, cutting dividend payments, and have not redeemed excess FHLB stock that members hold. The FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances currently and in the future. Although most of the severe problems in the FHLB system have been at the other FHLB branches, nonetheless, the 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system’s debt, other FHLB branches can be called upon to make any required payments. Any such adverse effects on the FHLBNY could adversely affect the value of the Company’s investment in its common stock and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. 13 The Company continually encounters technological change and may have to continue to invest in technological improvements The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company converted its core loan, deposit and financial reporting information technology platform from an outsourced, third-party provided system to an in-house, integrated solution. Although the Company expects to benefit from the enhanced functionality and process efficiencies of the new system, the conversion has created certain processing difficulties and continues to include meaningful execution risk, including the risk of integrating newly acquired banks and branches into the existing platform. Trading activity in the Company’s common stock could result in material price fluctuations The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors including, but not limited to: · Changes in securities analysts’ expectations of financial performance · Volatility of stock market prices and volumes · Incorrect information or speculation · Changes in industry valuations · Variations in operating results from general expectations · Actions taken against the Company by various regulatory agencies · Changes in authoritative accounting guidance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies · Changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor and healthcare cost trend rates, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations · Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 