Item 1A. Risk Factors There are risks inherent in the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Adverse experience with these could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates affect our profitability, assets and liabilities. The Company’s income and cash flow depends to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (3) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income could be adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect our earnings. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposit and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Although 2010 and 2011 have experienced modest improvements, the capital, credit and financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption during the last five years. These conditions have had significant adverse effects on our national and local economies, including declining real estate values, a widespread tightening of the availability of credit, illiquidity in certain securities markets, increasing loan delinquencies, historically unfavorable consumer confidence and spending, and a slow recovery of manufacturing and service business activity. Management does not expect these difficult market conditions to improve meaningfully over the short term, and a continuation of these conditions could exacerbate their adverse effects: · A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered · A decrease in the value of loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; and · An increase in the number of customers who may become delinquent or default on their loans The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. The Company, as a bank holding company is subject to regulation by the FRB and its banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the OCC. These regulations affect deposit and lending practices, capital levels and structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. In addition, the non-bank subsidiaries are engaged in providing investment management and insurance brokerage service, which industries are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. Such regulators govern the activities in which the Company and its subsidiaries may engage. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Company and its operations. Changes to the regulatory laws governing these businesses could affect the Company’s ability to deliver or expand its services and adversely impact its operations and financial condition. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is sweeping legislation intended to overhaul regulation of the financial services industry. Its goals are to establish a new council of “systemic risk” regulators, create a new consumer protection division within the Federal Reserve, empower the Federal Reserve to supervise the largest, most complex financial companies, allow the government to seize and liquidate failing financial companies, and give regulators new powers to oversee the derivatives market. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are so extensive that full implementation may require several years, and an assessment of its full effect on the Company is not possible at this time. 10 The Dodd-Frank Act also established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and authorizes it to supervise certain consumer financial services companies and large depository institutions and their affiliates for consumer protection purposes. Subject to the provisions of the Act, the CFPB has responsibility to implement, examine for compliance with, and enforce “Federal consumer financial law.” As a depository institution, the Company will be subject to examinations by the CFPB, which will focus on the Company’s ability to detect, prevent, and correct practices that present a significant risk of violating the law and causing consumer harm. Dodd-Frank provided that debit card interchange fees must be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. This provision is known as the Durbin Amendment. In June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board adopted regulations setting the maximum permissible interchange fee as the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction, with an additional adjustment of up to one cent per transaction if the issuer implements certain fraud-prevention standards. While the restrictions on interchange fees do not apply to banks that, together with their affiliates, have assets of less than $10 billion, the rule could affect the competitiveness of debit cards issued by smaller banks. Compliance with new laws and regulations will likely result in additional costs and/or decreases in revenue, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Company may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. As discussed above, the Dodd-Frank Act would require the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank holding companies. Under the legislation, the federal banking agencies would be required to develop capital requirements that address systemically-risky activities. The capital rules must address, at a minimum, risks arising from significant volumes of activity in derivatives, securities products, financial guarantees, securities borrowing and lending and repurchase agreements; concentrations in assets for which reported values are based on models; and concentrations in market share for any activity that would substantially disrupt financial markets if the institutions were forced to unexpectedly cease the activity. These requirements, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or could require it to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. Regional economic factors may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company’s main markets are located in the states of New York and Pennsylvania. Most of the Company’s customers are individuals and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. A prolonged economic downturn in these markets could negatively impact the Company. The Company faces strong competition from other banks and financial institutions, which can negatively impact its business. The Company conducts its banking operations in a number of competitive local markets. In those markets, it competes against commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loans associations, credit unions, mortgage banks, brokerage firms, and other financial institutions. Many of these entities are larger organizations with significantly greater financial, management and other resources than the Company has, and they offer the same or similar banking or financial services that it offers in its markets. Moreover, new and existing competitors may expand their business in or into the Company’s markets. Increased competition in its markets may result in a reduction in loans, deposits and other sources of its revenues. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The allowance for loan loss may be insufficient. The Company’s business depends on the creditworthiness of its customers. The Company periodically reviews the allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, the Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease its net income. It is possible that over time the allowance for loan losses will be inadequate to cover credit losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. 11 FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased and may increase further in the future. The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. In November 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. In 2010, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate as compared to prior periods. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC changed the basis for premium payments from a percentage of average deposits to a percentage of average consolidated Bank assets less average tangible capital, resulting in lower 2011 premiums for the Company. However, if there are additional bank or financial institution failures, the Company may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than the current levels. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact the Company’s earnings. Changes in the equity markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for other fee-based services. Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for fee-based services. Revenue from the wealth management and benefit plan administration businesses depends in large part on the level of assets under management and administration. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investment, as well as lower asset values, can reduce our level of assets under management and administration and thereby decrease our investment management and administration revenues. Mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility. Mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, and real estate and refinancing activity. In lower interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will tend to increase. This has the effect of increasing fee income, but could adversely impact the estimated fair value of our mortgage servicing rights as the rate of loan prepayments increase. In higher interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and refinancing activity will generally be lower. This has the effect of decreasing fee income opportunities. The Company depends on dividends from its banking subsidiary for cash revenues, but those dividends are subject to restrictions. The ability of the company to satisfy its obligations and pay cash dividends to its shareholders is primarily dependent on the earnings of and dividends from the subsidiary bank. However, payment of dividends by the bank subsidiary is limited by dividend restrictions and capital requirements imposed by bank regulations. The ability to pay dividends is also subject to the continued payment of interest that the Company owes on its subordinated junior debentures. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $102 million of subordinated junior debentures outstanding. The Company has the right to defer payment of interest on the subordinated junior debentures for a period not exceeding 20 quarters, although the Company has not done so to date. If the Company defers interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures, it will be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from paying cash dividends on the common stock until all deferred interest has been paid and interest payments on the subordinated junior debentures resumes. The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and result of operations. The business strategy of the Company includes growth through acquisition. The Company has announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 19 branch-banking centers from First Niagara and HSBC. The acquisition is expected to close during the third quarter of 2012. This acquisition and any other future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include among other things: the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company may deteriorate after the acquisition agreement is signed or after the acquisition closes. The Company may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio. The Company may be required to record impairment charges in respect to goodwill, other intangible assets and the investment portfolio. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for resale of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse actions by regulators, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment or a decision to change the operations or dispose of an operating unit could have a negative effect on the investment portfolio, goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods. 12 During 2010 rating agencies imposed a number of downgrades and credit watches on certain securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio, which contributed to the decline in fair value of such securities. During 2011 additional securities were downgraded, none of which resulted in an impairment charge to the Company. These downgrades were primarily the result of Standard & Poor’s downgrade of the U.S. government from AAA to AA+. However, any additional downgrades and credit watches may contribute to further declines in the fair value of these securities. In addition, the measurement of the fair value of these securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of the factors contributing to the measurement. Market volatility makes measurement of the fair value even more difficult and subjective. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in the investment portfolio is determined to be other than temporary, and the loss is related to credit factors, the Company could be required to recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made. The Company’s financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if incorrect, could cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, the Company is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, mortgage repurchase liability and reserves related to litigations, among other items. Certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including available-for-sale securities and certain loans, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare the Company’s financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, the Company may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment. Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, as they are based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment. If assumptions or estimates underlying the Company’s financial statements are incorrect, it may experience material losses. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s online banking system, its general ledger, and its deposit and loan servicing and origination systems. Furthermore, if personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Company’s possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Company could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the Company’s systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. The Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems; however, any such failure, interruption or security breach could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations by requiring it to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as exposing the Company to civil litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. The Company owns common stock of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”) in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables it to borrow funds under the FHLBNY advance program. The carrying value of the Company’s FHLBNY common stock was $37.3 million as of December 31, 2011. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York. Several branches have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirement or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches have suspended dividends, cut dividend payments, and have not redeemed excess FHLB stock that members hold. The FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances currently and in the future. Although most of the severe problems in the FHLB system have been at the other FHLB branches, nonetheless, the 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system’s debt, other FHLB branches can be called upon to make any required payments. Any such adverse effects on the FHLBNY could adversely affect the value of the Company’s investment in its common stock and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. 13 The Company continually encounters technological change and may have to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company converted its core loan, deposit and financial reporting information technology platform from an outsourced, third-party provided system to an in-house, integrated solution. Although the Company expects to benefit from the enhanced functionality and process efficiencies of the new system, the conversion has created certain processing difficulties and continues to include the risk of integrating newly acquired banks and branches into the existing platform. Trading activity in the Company’s common stock could result in material price fluctuations. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors including, but not limited to: · Changes in securities analysts’ expectations of financial performance · Volatility of stock market prices and volumes · Incorrect information or speculation · Changes in industry valuations · Variations in operating results from general expectations · Actions taken against the Company by various regulatory agencies · Changes in authoritative accounting guidance by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies · Changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor and healthcare cost trend rates, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations · Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events The Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of its business, and failure to do so may have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s performance. The Company’s employees are its most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. The imposition on the Company or its employees of certain existing and proposed restrictions or taxes on executive compensation may adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and employees. If the Company is unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, the Company’s performance, including its competitive position, could have a materially adverse affect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 