Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this section describe major risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. In addition, this section sets forth statements which constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous assumptions, risks or uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “estimates,” “anticipates,” “predicts,” “projects,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “target,” “forecast,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “should,” “may” and “will” or the negative versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Annual Report. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic events, changes in federal and state tax and labor laws and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made. General economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance. General economic conditions, in North America and globally, may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could adversely affect the demand for Cintas’ products and services. Increases in labor costs, including healthcare and insurance costs, labor shortages or shortages of skilled labor, higher material costs for items such as fabrics and textiles, lower recycled paper prices, higher interest rates, inflation, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could increase our costs of rental uniforms and ancillary products and other services and selling and administrative expenses. As a result, these factors could adversely affect our sales and results of operation. Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in highly competitive industries and compete with national, regional and local providers. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in these industries. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, Cintas may be required to lower prices, which would hurt our results of operations. Cintas’ competitors also generally compete with Cintas for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. In addition, our customers and prospects may decide to perform certain services in-house instead of outsourcing these services to Cintas. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our results of operations. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We require all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor and 6 environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, United States and foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our results of operations. Further increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The price of fuel and energy needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters and environmental concerns. Recent oil price increases have adversely affected our operating expense. Any further increase in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An inability to open new, cost effective operating facilities may adversely affect our expansion efforts. We plan to expand our presence in existing markets and enter new markets. The opening of new operating facilities is necessary to gain the capacity required for this expansion. Our ability to open new operating facilities depends on our ability to identify attractive locations, negotiate leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms, identify and obtain adequate utility and water sources and comply with environmental regulations, zoning laws and other similar factors. Any inability to effectively identify and manage these items may adversely affect our expansion efforts, and, consequently, adversely affect our financial performance. Unionization campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations. Cintas continues to be the target of a corporate unionization campaign by several unions. These unions are attempting to pressure Cintas into surrendering our employees' rights to a government-supervised election by unilaterally accepting union representation. We continue to vigorously oppose this campaign and defend our employees' rights to a government-supervised election. This campaign could be materially disruptive to our business and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Within our Document Management business, we handle customers’ confidential information. Our failure to protect our customers’ confidential information against security breaches could damage our reputation, harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. Our Document Management business includes both document shredding and document storage services. These services involve the handling of our customers’ confidential information and the subsequent shredding or storage of this information. Any compromise of security, accidental loss or theft of customer data in our possession could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of liability, which could harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs that adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating locations are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing discharges of pollutants to the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. The operation of our businesses entails risks under environmental laws and regulations. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under these laws and regulations. We are currently involved in a limited number of remedial investigations and actions at various locations. While, based on information currently known to us, we believe that we maintain adequate 7 reserves with respect to these matters, our liability could exceed forecasted amounts, and the imposition of additional clean-up obligations or the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant additional costs which could adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Under environmental laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to pay the costs of removing or remediating hazardous materials located on or emanating from property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of or was responsible for the presence of such hazardous materials. While Cintas regularly engages in environmental due diligence in connection with acquisitions, we can give no assurance that locations that have been acquired or leased have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations during prior periods or that future uses or conditions will not make us liable under these laws or expose us to third-party actions including tort suits. We are subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We discuss these lawsuits and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and in Note 12 entitled Litigation and Other Contingencies of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Certain of these lawsuits or potential future lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other state and local agencies that oversee safety compliance could adversely affect our results of operations. The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or “OSHA”, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various record keeping, disclosure and procedural requirements. Various OSHA standards may apply to our operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with OSHA and other state and local laws and regulations. The failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines by government authorities, payment of damages to private litigants and affect our ability to service our customers. Risks associated with our acquisition policy could adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, a portion of our growth has come from acquisitions. We continue to evaluate opportunities for acquiring businesses that may supplement our internal growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate and purchase suitable acquisitions. In addition, the success of any acquisition depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired company. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and our financial and other resources. Although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover all material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to successfully integrate these acquired businesses or to discover such liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining competent personnel in key positions. We believe that a key component of our success is our corporate culture which has been imparted by management throughout our corporate organization. This factor, along with our entire operation, depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competitive pressures within and outside our industry may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain key employees which could adversely affect our business. Unexpected events could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados, war or terrorist activities, unplanned outages, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems or changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our business, could adversely affect our results of operations. These events could result in customer disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems. 8 Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business and stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the consolidated financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. This may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 9 Item 