Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risk factors described below should be carefully considered. If any of the risk factors actually occur, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The following list of risk factors may not be exhaustive. Additional risk and uncertainties not presently known or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect us. Our consumer products segment has experienced significant declining net sales during the last five years. The demand for collectible dolls has declined and we have experienced intense competition from lower-priced collectible dolls manufactured in China, resulting in a significant decline in net sales. Our consumer products segment has realized losses from operations in each of the past five years. We have not been able to reduce fixed costs and operating expenses sufficiently to offset the decline in net sales. We may continue to experience losses unless we are able to increase our net sales and/or further reduce our fixed costs and/or operating expenses. Our consumer products segment does not have any external financing sources. The consumer products segment must, on its own, generate sufficient cash to operate its business. In recent years, the consumer products segment financed its losses by borrowing from BMSBLC. Unless the consumer products segment can generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or is otherwise able to borrow from financial institutions, it would eventually encounter significant problems in meeting its working capital requirements. Our outsourcing of the manufacturing of the products sold by the consumer products segment to Chinese manufacturers could adversely affect inventory levels. Nearly all our products sold by the consumer products segment are manufactured in China. The amount of product to be purchased from Chinese manufacturers must be ordered several months in advance to allow for manufacturing and shipping time. If the amount of product ordered exceeds the future sales, inventories will increase which will reduce profits and/or increase losses. If sales would exceed the amount of product ordered, then inventory would be insufficient to meet customer demand. Three customers provide a significant portion of the sales for the consumer products segment. Three customers, Kohl's Department Stores, Inc., Bed Bath and Beyond, and Parisian's (a division of Saks Regional Department Store Group) accounted for approximately 33% of total revenues for our consumer products segment during 2005. A loss of any one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is no assurance that we will have sufficient funds available to completely redeem our outstanding preferred stock by July 1, 2008. We are required to redeem $16.85 million of preferred stock by July 1, 2008, to the extent permitted under Wisconsin law. We have been using the proceeds from the sale of our leased properties and from the sale of loans and loan participations to reduce our indebtedness. We anticipate that substantially all of our loans and loan participations will be sold or will have matured prior to June 30, 2006. In addition, we anticipate selling all of our leased real estate over time; however, as of March 31, 2006, no decision has been made with respect to the sale of any specific leased properties. Conditions in the real estate market for industrial and commercial buildings similar to those owned by us, will affect the availability of purchasers, the prices at which the real estate can be sold, and the timing of such sales. We anticipate that proceeds will be sufficient to pay off the existing bank debt. However, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from the sale of these assets to completely redeem the preferred stock by July 1, 2008. We will have sufficient funds only if the consumer products segment can generate earnings and/or raise funds from other sources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 9 