Item 1A. Risk Factors In an enterprise as diverse and complex as Nordson’s, a wide range of factors could affect future performance. We discuss in this section some of the risk factors that, if they actually occurred, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, value and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we highlight below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company does not presently know about or that the Company currently believes will be immaterial may also affect the Company’s business. 7 Table of Contents In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this Report, the significant risk factors affecting our operations include the following: Changes in U.S. or international economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. In 2006, 33 percent of the Company’s revenue was derived from domestic operations while 67 percent was derived from international operations. The Company’s largest markets include appliance, automotive, bookbinding, container, converting, electronics, food and beverage, furniture, life sciences, medical, metal finishing, nonwovens, packaging and semiconductor. A slowdown in any of these specific end markets could directly affect the Company’s revenue stream and profitability. A portion of our product sales is attributable to industries and markets, such as the semiconductor and metal finishing industries, which historically have been cyclical and sensitive to relative changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions. The demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions of the industries or national economies of our customers. Downward economic cycles in our customers’ industries or countries may reduce sales of some of our products. It is not possible to predict accurately the factors that will affect demand for our products in the future. Any significant downturn in the health of the general economy, either globally, regionally or in the markets in which we sell products could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance. Political conditions in foreign countries in which we operate could adversely affect us. The Company conducts its manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. In the year ended October 31, 2006, approximately 67 percent of our total sales were to customers outside the U.S. We expect that international operations and U.S. export sales will continue to be important to our business for the foreseeable future. Both the sales from international operations and U.S. export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • unanticipated or unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; • risks of economic instability; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • international customers with longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • the disruption of operations from foreign labor and political disturbances; • the imposition of tariffs, import or export licensing requirements; • exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country. Any of these events could reduce the demand for our products, limit the prices at which we can sell our products, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating performance. 8 Table of Contents The inability to continue to develop new products could limit the Company’s revenue and profitability. Innovation is critical to the Company’s success. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. Our recent historical growth has also depended, and our future growth is likely to continue to depend, in large part on our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of acquired businesses into our existing operations. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We cannot assure, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, prevail against competing potential acquirers, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate such acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we cannot assure that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. The success of any acquisition is subject to other risks and uncertainties, including: • the Company’s ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies or other benefits expected from an acquisition, and possible delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired business; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers; • the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; • the ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations by causing the Company to incur debt or requiring the amortization of acquisition expenses and acquired assets. We may also face liability with respect to acquired businesses for violations under environmental laws occurring prior to the date of our acquisition, and some or all of these liabilities may not be covered by environmental insurance secured to mitigate the risk or by indemnification from the sellers from which we acquired these businesses. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates or change in monetary policy may harm our financial results. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro and the Yen. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. 9 Table of Contents The majority of our consolidated revenues in 2006 were generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. We recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which historically have been material and could continue to be material. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We take actions to manage our foreign currency exposure, such as entering into hedging transactions, where available, but we cannot assure that our strategies will adequately protect our consolidated operating results from the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations diminish the value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation and, if they occur or continue for significant periods, could adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. Inability to access capital could impede growth. The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from making acquisitions or capital improvements or cause us to lose access to these facilities. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money or guarantee the debts of others; • use assets as security in other transactions; • make investments or other restricted payments or distributions; • change our business or enter into new lines of business; • sell or acquire assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios, including debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility) and consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility) to interest expense. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, our financial condition would be adversely affected. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we have substantial debt or because we may not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, equity financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. We could be adversely affected if our debt is downgraded. 10 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by rapid changes in interest rates. Any period of unexpected or rapid increase in interest rates may also adversely affect our profitability. At October 31, 2006, we had $117,318 of total debt outstanding, of which approximately 14 percent was priced at interest rates that float with the market. A 1 percent increase in the interest rate on the floating rate debt in 2006 would have resulted in approximately $171 of additional interest expense. A higher level of debt would increase the exposure discussed above. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect product sales and financial performance. Difficulties in acquiring and maintaining a proprietary intellectual ownership position could also adversely affect the Company’s business and financial position. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our patented technologies and proprietary rights and to defend against any claims of infringement, which involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. The Company’s ability to compete effectively with other companies depends in part on its ability to maintain and enforce the Company’s patents and other proprietary rights, which are essential to its business. These measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to the Company’s intellectual property and proprietary information. The law of patents and trade secrets is constantly evolving and often involves complex legal and factual questions. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights, to protect the Company’s trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the Company’s proprietary rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we have been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If we are unable to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and, if possible, may be time consuming. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value we believe them to have, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. This Form 10-K, particularly “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements relate to, among other things, income, earnings, cash flows, changes in operations, operating improvements, businesses in which Nordson Corporation operates and the U.S. and global economies. Statements in this 10-K that are not historical are hereby identified as “forward-looking statements” and may be indicated by words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “supports,” “plans,” “projects,” “expects,” “believes,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “hope,” “forecast,” “management is of the opinion,” use of the future tense and similar words or phrases. In light of these risks and uncertainties, actual events and results may vary significantly from those included in or contemplated or implied by such statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 11 Table of Contents The Company may, from time to time, post financial or other information on its Web site, http://www.nordson.com/ Investors/. The Internet address is for informational purposes only and is not intended for use as a hyperlink. The Company is not incorporating any material on its Web site into this Report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 