Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. However, these risks may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 5 Table of Contents ABILITY TO RESPOND TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND FASHION TRENDS Our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. Any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on our business. Consumer spending at our stores may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including consumer confidence, weather and other hazards of nature that affects consumer traffic, and general economic conditions. INVENTORY MANAGEMENT We strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains fresh and compelling to our customers. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases, we may have excess inventory, which would result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. IMPACT OF COMPETITIVE MARKET FORCES The recent retail industry consolidation changes the environment for many of our vendors and customers. In the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve the market’s needs. If we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining same-store sales, and declining profitability due to higher markdowns. STORE GROWTH STRATEGY As of March 2006, our plans for the next three years include opening 13 new stores and relocating or remodeling 18 existing stores. In the past, our expected opening dates have sometimes been delayed because of development plan delays. Our future growth could be negatively impacted by delays to our store opening, relocating or remodeling plans. In addition, our future net sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could reduce our operating performance. Performance in our new stores could also be impacted based on our ability to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service customers have come to expect when shopping at our stores. INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY The protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING The training and development of our future leaders is critical to our long-term growth. If we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. In addition, if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without established succession plans, our business may suffer. BOARD SUCCESSION A number of our long-standing Directors who were instrumental in leading our Company have retired or will soon retire from our Board. These Board members with extensive experience will no longer be actively involved in our business and development of our long-term strategy. We are welcoming a number of new members to our Board, and we expect to benefit from their vast business experience. MULTI-CHANNEL STRATEGY EXECUTION In 2005, we started to make changes in our Direct business that better align our online shopping environment and catalog with the customer experience in our Full-Line stores. These changes include: aligning our Direct merchandise offering with our Full-Line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores, catalogs and Web site; integrating our Full-Line stores and Direct merchandise organization; recommending that our Full-Line store salespeople utilize our Direct inventory to fulfill customer requests when merchandise is not available at the store; reducing the number and frequency of our Direct catalog mailings; and transitioning our Direct inventory system onto our Full-Line store platform, all while dealing with changes in the Internet market in general. If we made decisions that prove to not be embraced by our customers, our sales could decline. In addition, the cost of integrating these businesses may be greater than expected, which would impact our future operating performance. BRAND AND REPUTATION We have a well-recognized brand that is synonymous with the highest level of customer service. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation may negatively impact same-store sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. CAPITAL EFFICIENCY AND PROPER ALLOCATION Our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall returns. This includes spending on inventory, capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, managing accounts receivable through our credit business, and using our assets efficiently to return value to our shareholders. To a large degree, capital efficiency reflects how well we manage the other key risks to our Company. The actions taken to address other specific risks may affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital efficiency. Our recent operating results have raised expectations about our performance. If we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, we may fail to continue to produce similar financial results and we may experience a reduction in shareholder value. 6 Table of Contents HUMAN RESOURCE REGULATIONS Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with human resource laws such as wage and hour, meal and rest period, and commissions. Federal and state wage and hour laws are complex, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of California. Failure to comply with these laws could result in damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, and dissatisfied employees. EMPLOYMENT AND DISCRIMINATION LAWS State and federal employment and discrimination laws and the related case law continue to evolve, making ongoing compliance in this area a challenge. Failure to comply with these laws may result in damage to our reputation, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, and loss of customers and employees, which would result in a loss of net sales and increased employment costs, low employee morale and attendant harm to our business and results of operations. TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY We make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. We spend on average approximately $150 million each year on information technology operations and system development, and this spending is key to our growth strategy. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investment, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below the requirements of the business opportunity may result in the loss of our competitive position. In addition, an inadequate investment in maintaining our current systems may result in a loss of system functionality and increased future costs to bring our systems up to date. We may implement too much technology, or change too fast, which could result in failure to adopt the new technology if the business is not ready or capable of accepting it. Excessive technological change affects the effectiveness of adoption, and could adversely affect the realization of benefits from the technology. However, not implementing enough technology could compromise our competitive position. REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC, NYSE, the banking industry, and foreign countries. With recent high profile business failures on accounting-related issues, additional legal and regulatory requirements such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment. In addition, foreign laws may conflict with domestic laws. Failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance, and restatements of financial statements. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change in control events affecting us. For example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an “acquiring person”) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder became an acquiring person. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 