Item 1A Risk Factors. Seasonal Variation in Business Generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter due in large part to the timing of our customers’ capital spending programs. First-quarter sales volume is typically the lowest of the year due to customer holiday shutdowns. Working Capital Practices No special or unusual practices affect Nordson’s working capital. However, the Company generally requires advance payments as deposits on customized equipment and systems and, in certain cases, requires progress payments during the manufacturing of these products. The Company has initiated a number of new processes focused on reduction of manufacturing lead times. These initiatives have resulted in lower investment in inventory while maintaining the capability to respond promptly to customer needs. 5 Table of Contents Customers The Company serves a broad customer base, both in terms of industries and geographic regions. The loss of a single or few customers would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In fiscal 2007, no single customer accounted for 5 percent or more of sales. Backlog The Company’s backlog of open orders from continuing operations increased to $98,135 at October 31, 2007, from $68,637 at October 31, 2006. The increase can be traced to $14,234 from fiscal 2007 acquisitions in the Advanced Technology Systems segment, $11,658 from base businesses (primarily the Adhesive Dispensing Systems segment) and $3,606 from the favorable effects of changes in currency rates. All orders in the fiscal 2007 year-end backlog are expected to be shipped to customers in fiscal 2008. Government Contracts Nordson’s business neither includes nor depends upon a significant amount of governmental contracts or subcontracts. Therefore, no material part of the Company’s business is subject to renegotiation or termination at the option of the government. Competitive Conditions Nordson equipment is sold in competition with a wide variety of alternative bonding, sealing, caulking, finishing, coating, testing and inspection techniques. Any production process that requires surface preparation or modification, application of material to a substrate or surface, curing or testing and inspection is a potential use for Nordson equipment. Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including pricing, product quality and service. Nordson enjoys a leadership position in its business segments by delivering high-quality, innovative products and technologies, as well as after-the-sale service and technical support. Working with customers to understand their processes and developing the application solutions that help them meet their production requirements also contributes to Nordson’s leadership position. Nordson’s worldwide network of direct sales and technical resources also is a competitive advantage. Research and Development Investments in research and development are important to Nordson’s long-term growth, enabling the Company to keep pace with changing customer and marketplace needs through the development of new products and new applications for existing products. The Company places strong emphasis on technology developments and improvements through its internal engineering and research teams. Research and development expenses related to continuing operations were approximately $35,432 in fiscal 2007, compared with approximately $25,336 in fiscal 2006 and $22,341 in fiscal 2005. Environmental Compliance We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Under certain of these laws, we can be held strictly liable for hazardous substance contamination of any real property we have ever owned, operated or used as a disposal site or for natural resource damages associated with such contamination. We are also required to maintain various related permits and licenses, many of which require periodic modification and renewal. The operation of manufacturing plants unavoidably entails environmental, safety and health risks, and we could incur material unanticipated costs or liabilities in the future if any of these risks were realized in ways or to an extent that we did not anticipate. 6 Table of Contents We believe that we operate in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations requires continuing management effort and expenditures. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs and capital expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations and to obtain and maintain the necessary permits and licenses. We believe that the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material affect on our earnings, liquidity or competitive position, but we cannot assure that material compliance-related costs and expenses may not arise in the future. For example, future adoption of new or amended environmental laws, regulations or requirements or newly discovered contamination or other circumstances that require a response on our part may require us to incur costs and expenses that we cannot presently anticipate. We believe that we have properly designed our policies, practices and procedures to prevent unreasonable risk of material environmental damage arising from our operations. We accrue for estimated environmental liabilities with charges to expense. We believe our environmental accrual is adequate to provide for our portion of the costs of all such known environmental liabilities. Except for the disclosure in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection laws during fiscal 2007 had no material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Based upon consideration of currently available information, we believe liabilities for environmental matters will not have a material adverse affect on our financial position, operating results or liquidity, but we cannot assure that material environmental liabilities may not arise in the future. Employees As of October 31, 2007, Nordson had 4,089 full- and part-time employees, including 146 at the Company’s Amherst, Ohio, facility that are represented by a collective bargaining agreement that expires on October 31, 2010. No material work stoppages have been experienced at any of the Company’s facilities during any of the periods covered by this report. Available Information The Company’s proxy statement, annual report to the Securities and Exchange Commission (Form 10-K), quarterly reports (Form 10-Q) and current reports (Form 8-K) and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge at http://www.nordson.com/investors/SEC/ as soon as reasonably practical after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Copies of these reports may also be obtained free of charge by sending written requests to Barbara Price, Manager, Shareholder Relations, Nordson Corporation, 28601 Clemens Road, Westlake, Ohio 44145. Item 1A. Risk Factors In an enterprise as diverse and complex as Nordson’s, a wide range of factors could affect future performance. We discuss in this section some of the risk factors that, if they actually occurred, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, value and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that we highlight below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company does not presently know about or that the Company currently believes will be immaterial may also affect the Company’s business. 7 Table of Contents The significant risk factors affecting our operations include the following: Changes in U.S. or international economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. In fiscal 2007, 31 percent of the Company’s revenue was derived from domestic customers while 69 percent was derived from international customers. The Company’s largest markets include appliance, automotive, bookbinding, construction, container, converting, electronics assembly, food and beverage, furniture, life sciences, medical, metal finishing, nonwovens, packaging and semiconductor. A slowdown in any of these specific end markets could directly affect the Company’s revenue stream and profitability. A portion of our product sales is attributable to industries and markets, such as the semiconductor and metal finishing industries, which historically have been cyclical and sensitive to relative changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions. The demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions of the industries or national economies of our customers. Downward economic cycles in our customers’ industries or countries may reduce sales of some of our products. It is not possible to predict accurately the factors that will affect demand for our products in the future. Any significant downturn in the health of the general economy, either globally, regionally or in the markets in which we sell products could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance. Political conditions in foreign countries in which we operate could adversely affect us. The Company conducts its manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. In fiscal 2007, approximately 69 percent of our total sales were to customers outside the U.S. We expect that international operations and U.S. export sales will continue to be important to our business for the foreseeable future. Both the sales from international operations and U.S. export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • risks of economic instability; • unanticipated or unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • international customers with longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • the disruption of operations from foreign labor and political disturbances; • the imposition of tariffs, import or export licensing requirements; • exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country. Any of these events could reduce the demand for our products, limit the prices at which we can sell our products, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating performance. The inability to continue to develop new products could limit the Company’s revenue and profitability. Innovation is critical to the Company’s success. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our growth strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully. Our recent historical growth has also depended, and our future growth is likely to continue to depend, in large part on our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of acquired businesses into our existing operations. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We cannot assure, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, prevail against competing potential acquirers, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate such acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we cannot assure that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. The success of any acquisition is subject to other risks and uncertainties, including: • the Company’s ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies or other benefits expected from an acquisition, and possible delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired business; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers; • the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; • the ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact the Company’s operating performance as a result of the incurrence of acquisition-related debt, acquisition expenses, or the amortization of acquisition-acquired assets. We may also face liability with respect to acquired businesses for violations under environmental laws occurring prior to the date of our acquisition, and some or all of these liabilities may not be covered by environmental insurance secured to mitigate the risk or by indemnification from the sellers from which we acquired these businesses. We could also incur significant costs, including, but not limited to, remediation costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect product sales and financial performance. Difficulties in acquiring and maintaining our intellectual property rights could also adversely affect the Company’s business and financial position. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our patented technologies and proprietary rights and to defend against any claims of infringement. These activities involve complex and constantly evolving legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. The Company’s ability to compete effectively with other companies depends in part on its ability to maintain and enforce the Company’s patents and other proprietary rights, which are essential to its business. These measures afford only limited protection and may not in all cases prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. 9 Table of Contents Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights, to protect the Company’s trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the Company’s proprietary rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. If a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we have been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If we are unable to timely obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. This may not always be possible or, if possible, may be time consuming and expensive. Intellectual property litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could be expensive to us and divert some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not be as valuable as we believe, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates or change in monetary policy may harm our financial results. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, the British Pound and the Yen. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. The majority of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007 were generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. We recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses, which historically have been material and could continue to be material. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We take actions to manage our foreign currency exposure, such as entering into hedging transactions, where available, but we cannot assure that our strategies will adequately protect our consolidated operating results from the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or customers located in or conducting business in a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations diminish the U.S. dollar value of the currency of the country instituting the devaluation and, if they occur or continue for significant periods, could adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. 10 Table of Contents Inability to access capital could impede growth. The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from making acquisitions or capital improvements or cause us to lose access to these facilities. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money or guarantee the debts of others; • use assets as security in other transactions; • make investments or other restricted payments or distributions; • change our business or enter into new lines of business; • sell or acquire assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios, including debt to consolidated EBITDA (both as defined in the credit facility) and consolidated EBITDA to interest expense (as defined in the credit facility). These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain any necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, our financial condition would be adversely affected. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we have substantial debt or because we may not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, equity financing may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. We could be adversely affected by rapid changes in interest rates. Any period of unexpected or rapid increase in interest rates may also adversely affect our profitability. At October 31, 2007, we had $346,939 of total debt outstanding, of which approximately 86 percent was priced at interest rates that float with the market. A 1 percent increase in the interest rate on the floating rate debt in fiscal 2007 would have resulted in approximately $2,313 of additional interest expense. A higher level of floating rate debt would increase the exposure discussed above. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. The Company may, from time to time, post financial or other information on its Web site, http://www.nordson.com/Investors/. The Internet address is for informational purposes only and is not intended for use as a hyperlink. The Company is not incorporating any material on its Web site into this Report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 