Item 1A. Risk Factors In an enterprise as diverse as ours, a wide range of factors could affect future performance. We discuss in this section some of the risk factors that, if they actually occurred, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, value and results of operations. You should consider these risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The significant risk factors affecting our operations include the following: Changes in United States or international economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of any of our operations. In 2011, 25 percent of our revenue was derived from domestic customers, while 75 percent was derived from international customers. Our largest markets include appliance, automotive, construction, container, electronics assembly, food and beverage, furniture, life sciences and medical, light emitting diodes (LED), metal finishing, nonwovens, packaging, paper and paperboard converting and semiconductor. A slowdown in any of these specific end markets could directly affect our revenue stream and profitability. A portion of our product sales is attributable to industries and markets, such as the semiconductor and metal finishing industries, which historically have been cyclical and sensitive to relative changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions. The demand for our products depends, in part, on the general economic conditions of the industries or national economies of our customers. Downward economic cycles in our customers’ industries or countries may reduce sales of some of our products. It is not possible to predict accurately the factors that will affect demand for our products in the future. Any significant downturn in the health of the general economy, either globally, regionally or in the markets in which we sell products could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial performance, resulting in impairment of assets. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates or change in monetary policy may harm our financial results. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the euro, the yen, the pound sterling and the Chinese yuan. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the United States dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. The majority of our consolidated revenues in 2011 were generated in currencies other than the United States dollar, which is our reporting currency. We recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the United States dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses, which historically have been material and could continue to be material. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We take actions to manage our foreign currency exposure, such as entering into hedging transactions, where available, but we cannot assure that our strategies will adequately protect our consolidated operating results from the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into United States dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or customers located in or conducting business in a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations diminish the United States dollar value of the currency of the country instituting the devaluation and, if they occur or continue for significant periods, could adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. 7 Table of Contents Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive management team and the ability to recruit, hire and retain other key management personnel to support our growth and operational initiatives and replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important management and technical personnel could place a constraint on our global growth and operational initiatives which could lead to inefficient and ineffective management and operations, which would likely harm our revenues, operations and product development efforts and eventually result in a decrease in profitability. The inability to continue to develop new products could limit our revenue and profitability. Innovation is critical to our success. We believe that we must continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and manufacture new products with improved capabilities in order to continue to be a market leader. We also believe that we must continue to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. Our inability to anticipate, respond to or utilize changing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations. Inability to access capital could impede growth or the repayment or refinancing of existing indebtedness. The limits imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities could prevent us from making acquisitions or cause us to lose access to these facilities. Our existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • borrow money or guarantee the debts of others; • use assets as security in other transactions; • make investments or other restricted payments or distributions; • change our business or enter into new lines of business; • sell or acquire assets or merge with or into other companies. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet financial ratios, including “total indebtedness” to “consolidated trailing earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization” (EBITDA) both as defined in the credit facility, and consolidated trailing EBITDA to consolidated trailing interest expense as defined in the credit facility. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing activities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other terms of our credit facilities will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with such covenants and terms, we will be in default and the maturity of the related debt could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. We may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance under our credit facilities, including waivers with respect to our compliance with certain financial covenants. If we are unable to obtain necessary waivers and the debt under our credit facilities is accelerated, we would be required to obtain replacement financing at prevailing market rates. We may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. If we are unable to access capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may not be able to expand our business or meet our payment requirements under our existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain new or additional financing because we have substantial debt or because we may not have sufficient cash flow to service or repay our existing or future debt. In addition, depending on market conditions and our financial performance, neither debt nor equity financing may be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Finally, as a consequence of worsening financial market conditions, our credit facility providers may not provide the agreed credit if they become undercapitalized. 8 Table of Contents Our growth strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute on our acquisition strategy or integrate acquisitions successfully. Our recent historical growth has depended, and our future growth is likely to continue to depend, in part on our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of acquired businesses into our existing operations. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We cannot assure, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition opportunities, prevail against competing potential acquirers, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing that may be needed to consummate such acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we cannot assure that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. The success of our acquisition strategy is subject to other risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies or other benefits expected from an acquisition, and possible delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired business; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired companies; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers; • the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; • the ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact our operating performance as a result of the incurrence of acquisition-related debt, acquisition expenses, the amortization of acquisition-acquired assets, or possible future impairments of goodwill or intangible assets associated with the acquisition. We may also face liability with respect to acquired businesses for violations of environmental laws occurring prior to the date of our acquisition, and some or all of these liabilities may not be covered by environmental insurance secured to mitigate the risk or by indemnification from the sellers from which we acquired these businesses. We could also incur significant costs, including, but not limited to, remediation costs, natural resources damages, civil or criminal fines and sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of past or future violations of, or liabilities associated with environmental laws. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect product sales and financial performance. Difficulties in acquiring and maintaining our intellectual property rights could also adversely affect our business and financial position. Our performance may depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our patented technologies and proprietary rights and to defend against any claims of infringement. These activities involve complex and constantly evolving legal, scientific and factual questions and uncertainties. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our patents and other proprietary rights, which are essential to our business. These measures afford only limited protection and may not in all cases prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. 9 Table of Contents Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, we may not be able to protect the value of some of our intellectual property. If a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties or license fees to continue to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we have been using or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. If we are unable to timely obtain licenses on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, or to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. This may not always be possible or, if possible, may be time consuming and expensive. Intellectual property litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could be expensive to us and divert some of our resources. Our intellectual property rights may not be as valuable as we believe, which could result in a competitive disadvantage or adversely affect our business and financial performance. Political conditions in foreign countries in which we operate could adversely affect us. We conduct our manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. In 2011, approximately 75 percent of our total sales were to customers outside the United States. We expect that international operations and United States export sales will continue to be important to our business for the foreseeable future. Both sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • risks of economic instability; • unanticipated or unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • international customers with longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • the disruption of operations from foreign labor and political disturbances; • the imposition of tariffs, import or export licensing requirements; • exchange controls or other trade restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country. Any of these events could reduce the demand for our products, limit the prices at which we can sell our products, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating performance. We could be adversely affected by rapid changes in interest rates. Any period of unexpected or rapid increase in interest rates may also adversely affect our profitability. At October 31, 2011, we had $319,156 of total debt and notes payable outstanding, of which 60 percent was priced at interest rates that float with the market. A one percent increase in the interest rate on the floating rate debt in 2011 would have resulted in approximately $785 of additional interest expense. A higher level of floating rate debt would increase the exposure to changes in interest rates. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents 