ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to our operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Banking laws and regulations could limit our access to funds from the Bank, one of our primary sources of liquidity. As a bank holding company, one of our principal sources of funds is dividends from our subsidiaries. These funds are used to service our debt as well as to pay expenses and dividends on our common stock. Our non-consolidated interest expense on our debt obligations was $2.8 million and $2.5 million and our non-consolidated operating expenses were $16,000 and $10,000 in 2007 and 2006, respectively. State banking regulations limit, absent regulatory approval, the Bank’s dividends to us to the lesser of the Bank’s undivided profits and the Bank’s retained net income for the current year plus its retained net income for the preceding two years (less any required transfers to capital surplus) up to the date of any dividend declaration in the current calendar year. As a result of the net operating loss we incurred in 2005, from 2005 through 2007 the Bank was required to obtain advance regulatory approval from the Banking Department to pay dividends to the Company. As of January 1, 2008 the Bank is no longer required to seek regulatory approval from the Banking Department to declare dividends. As of January 1, 2008, a maximum of approximately $14 million was available to the Company from the Bank according to these limitations. Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting its business. The payment of dividends or other transfers of funds to us, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. Dividend payments from the Bank would also be prohibited under the “prompt corrective action” regulations of the federal bank regulators if the Bank is, or after payment of such dividends would be, undercapitalized under such regulations. In addition, the Bank is subject to restrictions under federal law that limit its ability to transfer funds or other items of value to us and our nonbanking subsidiaries, including affiliates, whether in the form of loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, or other transactions involving the transfer of value. Unless an exemption applies, these transactions by the Bank with us are limited to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus and, with respect to all such transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. As of December 31, 2007, a maximum of approximately $28.0 million was available to us from the Bank according to these limitations. Moreover, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured in specified amounts. A bank’s transactions with its non-bank affiliates also are required generally to be on arm’s-length terms. We do not have any borrowings from the Bank and do not anticipate borrowing from the Bank in the future. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will receive dividends or other distributions from the Bank and our other subsidiaries. Our other primary source of funding is our DRP, which allows existing stockholders to reinvest cash dividends in our common stock and/or to purchase additional shares through optional cash investments on a quarterly basis. Shares are purchased at up to a 5% discount from the current market price under either plan option. No assurance can be given that we will continue the DRP or that stockholders will make purchases in the future. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans expose us to increased lending risks. Commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans comprise the majority of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2007, our portfolio of commercial and industrial loans totaled approximately $323 million and our commercial real estate loans amounted to approximately $434 million, in comparison to total loans of $1.0 billion. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than non-commercial loans because repayment of commercial loans often depends on the successful operation and cash flow of the borrowers. Such loans also typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to non-commercial loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to a commercial real estate loan or commercial business loan can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a non-commercial loan. Commercial real estate loans may present special lending risks and may expose lenders to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility due to adverse changes in the general commercial real estate market. 18 Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area and nationally. Our operations are located almost entirely in New York, with close to 100% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007 derived from operations in Nassau, Suffolk and Queens counties. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations largely depend upon economic conditions in this area. There has been a deterioration in the real estate market on a nationwide basis, which has resulted in a decline of residential real estate values in the New York metropolitan area. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. No assurance can be given that the original appraised values are reflective of current market conditions. The second half of 2007 was highlighted by significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital marketplaces. This turbulence has been attributable to a variety of factors, including the fallout associated with the subprime mortgage market. One aspect of this fallout has been significant deterioration in the activity of the secondary residential mortgage market. The disruptions have been exacerbated by the continued decline of the real estate and housing markets along with significant mortgage loan related losses incurred by many lending institutions. The turmoil in the mortgage market has impacted the global and domestic markets and has led to a significant decline in economic growth during the second half of 2007 and a national economy bordering on recession. Adverse changes in the economy caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely loan payments, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Consequently, deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in the New York metropolitan area, could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, which could result in an increase in delinquencies causing a decrease in our interest income, as well as an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Such deterioration could also adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and, accordingly, our results of operations. The Bank makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan and lease portfolio and provides an allowance for loan and lease losses based on a number of factors. If, due to unforeseen and/or uncontrollable circumstances, there are changes to the variables upon which our assumptions are made, the allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses and could require us to charge-off a higher percentage of our loans and leases and/or increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which would reduce our income. During 2007, we experienced an increase in non-performing loans and net loan charge-offs. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a further increase in delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income, or continue to have an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses. Recent purported shareholder derivative litigation against the Company and our directors and officers may result in a material additional expense to the Company and cause our directors and officers to devote substantial time and attention to the defense of the litigation. On July 18, 2007, the Company was served with a Summons and Complaint in a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit, filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Nassau (Index No. 07-012411) by persons identifying themselves as shareholders of the Company and purporting to act on behalf of the Company, naming the Company as a nominal defendant and certain of the Company’s current and former directors and officers as defendants. The lawsuit alleges, among other things, (1) that the defendant directors and officers breached their fiduciary duty to the Company in connection with the Company’s previously disclosed dealing with Island Mortgage Network, Inc., which resulted in litigation in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (the “IMN Matter”) and (2) that the directors engaged in corporate waste by awarding bonuses to certain officers who participated in the IMN matter and by offering a voluntary exit window program to certain officers who participated in the IMN matter. The amount of damages claimed was not specified in the Complaint. If the plaintiffs prevail against the defendant directors and officers it is possible that such directors and officers could be entitled to indemnification from the Company for all or a portion of such damages. While we cannot predict or determine the outcome of this litigation, the potential expenses, including possible indemnification costs, associated with the litigation may be material and our officers and directors may need to devote a substantial amount of their time and attention to the defense of the litigation. Legal expenses in 2007 included $1.9 million in outside counsel fees relating to this matter. 19 Changes in economic conditions or interest rates may negatively affect our earnings, capital and liquidity. The results of operations for financial institutions, including the Bank, may be materially adversely affected by changes in prevailing local and national economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values, rapid increases or decreases in interest rates and changes in the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be affected differently by a change in interest rates. We expect that interest rate spreads will continue to tighten due to competitive pressures, resulting in a narrowing of our interest rate margin on most loan and lease offerings. Funding costs are expected to rise slightly during 2008 as competitive pressures are expected to push up deposit rates and the continued disintermediation of low cost core deposit balances into CD products remains a factor. We expect that, notwithstanding the shape of the yield curve, our net interest margin may decline modestly in 2008 from current levels. Should the economy experience a prolonged slowdown resulting in the Federal Reserve lowering interest rates further, we may experience a more significant decline in our net interest margin. Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, a number of which are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have, including access to capital, and as such, may have higher lending limits and may offer other services not offered by us. Additionally over the past several years, various large out-of-state financial institutions have entered the New York metropolitan area market. All are our competitors to varying degrees. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. Our competition for loans, both locally and nationally, comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, insurance companies, credit unions and money market funds. Also, as a result of the deregulation of the financial industry, we also face competition from other providers of financial services such as corporate and government securities funds as well as from other financial intermediaries such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state tax laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, accounting principles and governmental economic and monetary policies. We cannot predict whether any of these changes may materially adversely affect us. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take enforcement actions as they deem appropriate. These enforcement actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, limitations on our activities, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes, that could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws. 20 We continually encounter technological change, and may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 ITEM 