Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results and from our projections. Important factors known to us that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the “Safe Harbor” statement at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: During periods of weakening economic conditions, employment levels may decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. These conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. Current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. In addition, new business starts may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. The interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. Constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. We historically have not borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. However, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. If all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: We receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. Our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: Many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continue to change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. Added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. Failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology: To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. If our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. In the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We have a 8 Table of Contents business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. If the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. We may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: As part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. We may make errors and omissions in providing services, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us: Processing, tracking, collecting, and remitting client funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies, client employees, and other third parties are complex operations. These tasks could be subject to error and these errors could include, but are not limited to, late filing with applicable tax or regulatory agencies, underpayment of taxes, and failure to comply with applicable banking regulations and laws relating to employee benefits administration, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities that would adversely affect our results of operations. We could also transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the wrong amount, and may be unable to correct the error or recover the funds, resulting in a loss to us. We may experience a loss as the result of our clients having insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf to applicable tax or regulatory agencies and employees: As part of the payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their bank accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and applicable tax or regulatory agencies. It is possible that we would be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, payments on our clients’ behalf for which we are not reimbursed, resulting in a loss to us. Our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients’ information confidential: Our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees’ identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. This information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the Internet. There is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. If our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients’ business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our PEO business: Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the “co-employment” relationship. As a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. Although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. In addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the “employer” under any of the state or federal laws. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions: From time to time we acquire other companies. The effective integration of acquired companies may be difficult to achieve. It is also possible that we may not realize any or all expected benefits from acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely manner. In addition, we may incur significant costs and management’s time and attention may be diverted from other parts of our business in connection with the integration of acquisitions. Failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which could harm our business: We are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. These include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. As of May 31, 2009, we have a reserve of $20.4 million for pending litigation. Refer to Item 3 of this Form 10-K for additional disclosure regarding legal proceedings. In light of the litigation reserve recorded, our management currently believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of our operations. However, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: Refer to Item 7A of this Form 10-K for a discussion on Market Risk Factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 