ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company in each of these categories of risk. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our business The high level of competition in the vehicle rental industry may lead to reduced rental volumes and increased pricing pressure, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The vehicle rental industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We believe that price is one of the primary competitive factors in the vehicle rental industry. Our competitors, some of whom may have access to substantial capital, may seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing. To the extent our competitors reduce their pricing, price increases we may seek to implement are not competitive or we do not match or remain within a reasonable competitive margin of our competitors’ pricing, we may lose rental volume. We could be further impacted if we are unable to adjust the size of our rental fleet in response to fluctuations in demand. The risk of competition on the basis of pricing in the truck rental industry can be even more intense than in the car rental industry because it can be more difficult to reduce the size of our truck rental fleet in response to reduced demand. The Internet has increased pricing transparency among vehicle rental companies by enabling cost-conscious customers to more easily obtain and compare the rates available from various vehicle rental companies for any given rental. This transparency may increase the prevalence and intensity of price competition in the future. We face risks of increased fleet costs, both generally and due to the possibility that manufacturers could change or cease their repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs. Fleet costs, which represent our largest single expense, represented approximately 25% of our aggregate expenses for 2010 and can vary from year to year based on the prices at which we are able to purchase and dispose of rental vehicles. In 2010, on average approximately 47% of our domestic rental car fleet was comprised of vehicles subject to agreements requiring automobile manufacturers to repurchase them or guarantee the depreciation rate for a specified period of time. We refer to such agreements as “programs” and to cars subject to such agreements as “program cars”. Under these programs, automobile manufacturers agree to repurchase cars at a specified price during a specified time period or guarantee the rate of depreciation for a specified period of time, typically subject to certain car condition and mileage requirements. These programs therefore enable us to determine, in advance, our depreciation expense, which is a significant component of our fleet costs. Programs also limit the risk to us that the market value of a car, at the time of its disposition, will be less than its estimated residual (or depreciated) value; however, such programs result in additional exposure to the manufacturers with whom we have such agreements. See “We face risks related to the financial condition of automobile manufacturers and the used vehicle marketplace”. Automobile manufacturers may not continue to sell program cars to us at all or on terms consistent with past practice. The overall cost of program cars could also increase if the manufacturers were to make changes to such programs, particularly if such changes were to result in an adverse impact in the repurchase price or guaranteed depreciation without a corresponding decrease to the original purchase price. Programs also generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the size of our fleet rapidly in response to an economic slowdown or changes in demand by disposing of cars sooner than originally expected. This flexibility may be reduced in the future to the extent we reduce the percentage of program cars in our car rental fleet or this feature of the programs is altered. 17 Table of Contents Our per-unit fleet costs could also increase if we decide to purchase fewer vehicles than previously agreed to, as we receive payments from manufacturers, known as “incentive payments”, once certain conditions are met such as reaching certain purchase volumes, or if manufacturers eliminate or reduce the terms of these incentive programs. Any increase in our per-unit fleet costs could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to the financial condition of automobile manufacturers and the used vehicle marketplace. Approximately 28%, 26% and 14% of the cars we acquired for our domestic fleet in 2010 were manufactured by General Motors, Ford and Chrysler, respectively. A majority of these cars, and a portion of our cars manufactured by foreign manufacturers, are program cars. If a manufacturer were to default under its agreements with us as a result of bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise, we could incur material expenses if the prices at which we were able to dispose of program cars were less than the specified prices under the applicable program. This effect may be magnified because we typically pay the manufacturer of a program car more than we would pay to buy the same car as a non-program, or “risk”, vehicle and because we depreciate a program car to the repurchase price or the guaranteed depreciation agreed to by the manufacturer. This price does not take into consideration conditions in such marketplace and is usually therefore higher than the price that would be available in the used car marketplace. On average approximately 47% of our domestic rental car fleet in 2010 was comprised of program cars and we also receive incentive payments from manufacturers following the purchase of some of our vehicles once certain conditions are met such as reaching certain purchase volumes. Failure by a manufacturer to fulfill its obligations under any program agreement or incentive payment obligation could leave us with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer particularly with respect to program cars that were either (i) resold for an amount less than the amount guaranteed under the applicable program and therefore subject to a “true-up” payment obligation from the manufacturer or (ii) returned to the manufacturer but for which we were not yet paid and therefore we could incur a substantial loss as a result of such failure to perform. We currently sell non-program vehicles through auctions, third-party resellers and other channels in the used vehicle marketplace. Such channels may not produce stable used vehicle prices. A reduction in residual values for non-program cars and trucks in our vehicle rental fleet could cause us to sustain a substantial loss on the ultimate sale of such vehicles or require us to depreciate those vehicles at a more accelerated rate while we own them. Any reduction in the market value of the vehicles in our fleet could effectively increase our fleet costs, adversely impact our profitability and potentially lead to decreased capacity in our asset backed car rental funding facilities due to the collateral requirements for such facilities which effectively increase as market values for vehicles decrease. In addition, if our ability to sell vehicles in the used vehicle marketplace were to become severely limited at a time when required collateral levels were rising, principal under our asset-backed financing facilities may be required to be repaid sooner than anticipated with vehicle disposition proceeds and lease payments we make to our vehicle program subsidiaries. If that were to occur, the holders of our asset-backed debt may have the ability to exercise their right to instruct the trustee to direct the return of program vehicles and/or the sale of non-program vehicles to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such debt. We face risks associated with sourcing vehicles for our fleet and potential safety recalls affecting vehicles in our fleet. We currently source our vehicles from both U.S. and non-U.S. auto manufacturers, including General Motors, Ford, Chrysler, Hyundai, Nissan, Kia, Subaru, Suzuki and Toyota. To the extent these or other auto manufacturers significantly curtail production, or determine to curtail sales to us or the vehicle rental industry for any reason, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of vehicles to operate our business without 18 Table of Contents significantly increasing our fleet costs. In addition, our vehicles may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers, which could have a similar impact on our business if we remove such recalled vehicles from our rentable fleet. If a large number of cars were to be the subject of simultaneous recalls, or if needed replacement parts are not in adequate supply, we may not be able to re-rent recalled cars for a significant period of time. We could also face liability claims related to vehicles subject to a safety recall. Depending on the nature and severity of the recall, it could adversely affect our revenues, create customer service problems, reduce the residual value of the cars involved, harm our general reputation and/or have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Weakness in general economic conditions in the United States and worldwide, weakness in travel demand and the housing market, and/or a significant increase in fuel costs can adversely impact our business. Historically, our results of operations have declined during periods of general economic weakness, and our results were adversely impacted in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic recession. If economic conditions in the United States and worldwide were to weaken, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted in 2011 and beyond. In 2010, we generated approximately 81% of our domestic car rental revenue from our on-airport locations; therefore, a decline in airline travel will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results of operations. Significant airline capacity reductions, airfare or related fee increases, any event that disrupts or reduces business or leisure air travel such as work stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents, natural disasters, epidemic diseases, or the response of governments to any of these events, could result in reduced air travel and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant increases in fuel prices, a severe protracted disruption in fuel supplies or rationing of fuel could discourage customers from renting cars or reduce or disrupt air travel. Our truck rental business can also be impacted by the housing market. If conditions in the housing market were to weaken, we may see a decline in truck rental transactions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies. For 2011, our objective is to focus on growing our business profitably, strengthening our position as a leading provider of vehicle rental services and maintaining and enhancing efficiencies achieved through process improvement and other actions, including certain core strategic initiatives, such as optimizing our two-brand strategy, expanding our revenue sources, capturing incremental profit opportunities, and controlling costs and promoting efficiencies. If we are not successful in these initiatives, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We are dependent on third-party distribution channels, and the success of our business depends in significant part on these relationships. We generate approximately 47% of our domestic car rental reservations through third-party distribution channels, which include: • traditional and online travel agencies, airlines and hotel companies, marketing partners such as credit card companies and membership organizations, and other entities that help us attract customers; and • global distribution systems, such as Amadeus, Galileo/Apollo, Sabre and Worldspan that connect travel agents, travel service providers and corporations to our reservations systems. In 2010, approximately 18% and 2% of our domestic car rental reservations came through our largest GDS source and our largest non-GDS third-party source of reservations, respectively. The operators of some third- 19 Table of Contents party distribution channels can cancel or modify their agreements with us upon relatively short notice. Changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules or arrangements with third-party distribution channels, the termination of any of our relationships or a reduction in the transaction volume of such channels, or a GDS’s inability to process and communicate reservations to us could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is seasonal, and a disruption in rental activity during our peak season could adversely affect our results of operations. Seasonal changes in our revenues do not alter certain of our expenses, like rent and insurance, that are fixed in the short run, typically resulting in higher profitability in periods when our revenues are higher and lower profitability in periods when our revenues are lower. In our business, the third quarter of the year has historically been our strongest quarter due to the increased level of leisure travel and household moving activity. In 2010, the third quarter accounted for 29% of our total revenue for each of our Domestic Car Rental, International Car Rental and Truck Rental segments and was our most profitable quarter for each of our segments as measured by Adjusted EBITDA. Any circumstance or occurrence that disrupts rental activity during the third quarter could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our financial condition and our results of operations. Our derivative instruments may impact our results of operations. We typically utilize derivative instruments to manage a portion of our risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, gas prices and foreign exchange rates. The derivative instruments we use are usually in the form of interest rate and commodity swaps and foreign exchange forwards. Periodically, we are required to determine the change in fair value, called the “mark to market,” of some of these derivative instruments, which can result in a non-cash charge or gain being recognized in our financial results. Significant changes or shifts in interest rates, gas prices and foreign exchange rates will impact the valuation of our derivatives and therefore could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses or gains if such rates or prices fluctuate materially from the time the derivatives were entered into. Accordingly, a fluctuation in such rates or prices may impact our financial position, results of operations and current or future cash flows. In addition, volatility in rates and prices can also impact the cost and effectiveness of our derivative instruments in managing our risks. To the extent any of our derivatives were to result in a gain upon settlement, we would be exposed to credit risk of the counterparties to such derivatives, which are typically large financial institutions. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of our international operations generate revenue and incur operating costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including our operations in Australia, Canada and New Zealand. In addition, the financial position and results of operations of some of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities, to the extent such figures reflect the inclusion of foreign assets and liabilities that are translated into U.S. dollars for presentation in our financial statements, as well as our results of operations. While we take steps to manage our currency exposure, we cannot accurately predict the nature or extent of future exchange rate variability, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. We face risks arising from our heavy reliance on communications networks and centralized information systems. We rely heavily on information systems, including our reservation system, to accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our fleet of vehicles, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our 20 Table of Contents business. We have centralized our information systems, and we rely on communications service providers to link our systems with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet, slow rental and sales processes, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our systems’ business continuity plans and insurance programs seek to mitigate such a risk, not eliminate it. We face risks related to liability and insurance. Our businesses expose us to claims for personal injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles and for workers’ compensation claims and other employment-related claims by our employees. We may become exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels resulting from unusually high losses or otherwise. In addition, liabilities in respect of existing or future claims may exceed the level of our reserves and/or our insurance, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance with unaffiliated carriers may not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. We face risks related to our locations. We lease or have vehicle rental concessions for both the Avis and Budget brands at locations throughout the world, including at airports both in the United States and internationally where vehicle rental companies are frequently required to bid periodically for the available locations. If we were to lose any lease or vehicle rental concession, particularly at an airport in a major metropolitan area, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find a suitable replacement on reasonable terms or at all and our business could be adversely affected. Environmental regulations could subject us to liability for fines or damages. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including, among other things, with respect to the ownership and operation of tanks for the storage of petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils. We have established a compliance program for our tank systems that is intended to ensure that the tanks are properly registered with the state or other jurisdiction in which the tanks are located and have been either replaced or upgraded to meet applicable leak detection and spill, overfill, corrosion protection and vapor recovery requirements. These tank systems may not at all times remain free from undetected leaks, and the use of these tanks may result in significant spills, which may expose us to material liabilities. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the cleanup of contamination at our owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Our compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations may, however, require material expenditures by us or otherwise have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory environment that affect our operations, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, insurance products we sell, consumer privacy, data security, employment matters, taxes, automobile-related liability and insurance rates, could disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and the other countries and jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices, financial position and results of operations. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through the issuance of new laws and regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. 21 Table of Contents Optional insurance products, including, but not limited to, supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, we offer to renters providing various insurance coverages in our domestic vehicle rental operations, are regulated under state laws governing such products. In our international car rental operations, our offering of optional products providing insurance coverages historically has not been regulated. Any changes in U.S. or foreign law that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue and profitability. If customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products from us as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In almost every state, we recover from consumers various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles. In addition, where permitted, we also recover from consumers certain costs, including concession costs imposed by an airport authority or the owner and/or operator of the premises from which our vehicle is rented. Our long-standing business practice has been to separately state the existence of these additional costs in our rental agreements and invoices, and disclose to consumers additional surcharges used to recover such costs together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. We believe that this standard practice comports with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. We may in the future be subject to potential legislative changes or administrative action which could limit, restrict or prohibit our ability to separately state, charge and recover such costs, which would result in an adverse cost reallocation. If any such changes were to be enacted there may be an adverse impact or limitation on our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge, which could adversely impact our profitability and results of operations. In 2005, federal legislation was enacted that pre-empted state laws which imputed tort liability solely based on ownership of a vehicle involved in an accident. If the current law were to change, our insurance liability exposure could materially increase. The U.S. Congress and other legislative and regulatory authorities in the United States and internationally have considered, and will likely continue to consider, numerous measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emissions become effective, demand for our services could be affected, our fleet and/or other costs could increase, and our business could be adversely affected. We may be held responsible by regulators, courts or others for the actions of, or failures to act by, our licensees, dealers or independent operators, which exposes us to possible fines, other liabilities and negative publicity. Our car and truck rental licensee and dealer locations are independently owned and operated. We also operate many of our corporate locations through agreements with “agency operators,” which are third-party independent contractors who receive commissions to operate such locations. Our agreements with our licensees, dealers and agency operators (“third-party operators”) generally require that they comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, including our internal policies and standards. Under these agreements, third-party operators retain control over the employment and management of all personnel. Regulators, courts or others may seek to hold us responsible for the actions of, or failures to act by third-party operators. Although we actively monitor the operations of these third-party operators, and under certain circumstances have the ability to terminate their agreements for failure to adhere to contracted operational standards, we are unlikely to detect all problems. Moreover, there are occasions when the actions and activities of third-party operators may not be clearly distinguishable from our own. It is our policy to vigorously seek to be dismissed from any such claims and to pursue indemnity for any adverse outcomes. Failure of third-party operators to comply with laws and regulations may expose us to liability, damages and publicity that may adversely affect our business. 22 Table of Contents Any failure by us to protect confidential information of our customers against security breaches could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Third parties may have the technology or expertise to breach the security of our customer transaction data and our security measures may not prevent such breaches, which could result in substantial harm to our business and results of operations and damage to our reputation. We rely on encryption and/or authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect customer transaction data. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, the PCI imposes strict customer credit card data security standards to ensure that our customers’ credit card information is protected. Failure to meet the PCI data security standards could result in substantial increased fees to credit card companies, other liabilities and/or loss of the right to collect credit card payments, which could adversely impact operations. Failure to protect customer credit card and other information can also result in governmental investigations or material civil or criminal liability. We face risks associated with our like-kind exchange program. We utilize a like-kind exchange program whereby we replace vehicles in a manner that allows tax gains on disposed vehicles to be deferred. The program has resulted in a material deferral of federal and state income taxes beginning in 2004. The benefit of deferral is dependent on reinvestment of vehicle disposition proceeds in replacement vehicles within a prescribed period of time (usually six months). An extended downsizing of our fleet could result in reduced deferrals, utilization of tax attributes and increased payment of federal and state income taxes, which could require us to make material cash payments. Such a downsizing or reduction in purchases would likely occur if, and to the extent, we are unable to obtain financing when our asset backed rental car financings mature and could also occur in connection with a significant decrease in demand for vehicle rentals. Therefore, we cannot offer assurance that the expected tax deferral will continue or that the relevant law concerning the program will remain in its current form. Risks related to our potential acquisition of Dollar Thrifty and other potential acquisitions or investments There are risks associated with our potential acquisition of Dollar Thrifty. In addition to the risks we face in connection with acquisitions and indebtedness generally as described herein, we face risks associated with the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, each of which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Such risks include: our level of indebtedness and/or our cost of indebtedness following an acquisition of Dollar Thrifty will be higher than our existing indebtedness and/or cost of indebtedness and may subject us to additional restrictive covenants; any issuance of our shares in such an acquisition will result in dilution to our existing stockholders; our credit ratings may be adversely affected, which may impact the cost of future borrowings; the potential need for approval by Dollar Thrifty’s shareholders may delay, prevent or otherwise adversely impact an acquisition of Dollar Thrifty; the market price of our common stock or other securities may decline as a result of a proposed or actual acquisition of Dollar Thrifty; costs associated with a proposed or actual acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, including potential liability for termination fees; and a proposed or actual acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, or our failure to complete such an acquisition, may result in our being subject to unknown liabilities and litigation, including pending or future litigation involving the sale of Dollar Thrifty. There can be no assurance as to the timing or outcome of the efforts to secure antitrust clearance for the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, that any agreement with respect to a transaction will be reached, or as to the timing or terms thereof. 23 Table of Contents In the event we consummate the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, we may not be able to successfully integrate Dollar Thrifty or realize the potential benefits of the proposed acquisition, which could cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to combine successfully the operations of Dollar Thrifty with our operations if the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty is consummated and, even if such integration is accomplished, the potential benefits of the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty may be less than we currently expect, or may not be realized at all. The integration of Dollar Thrifty with our operations will require significant attention from management and may impose substantial demands on our operations or other projects. The difficulties of integrating Dollar Thrifty’s operations with our operations include, among other things: • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures between Dollar Thrifty’s structures and our structures; • limitations prior to the consummation of the acquisition on our ability to work with Dollar Thrifty management to develop an integration plan; • the increased scope and complexity of our operations; • the retention of key employees; • provisions in our and Dollar Thrifty’s contracts with third parties that limit our flexibility to take certain actions; • the consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures; and • the possibility of costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations of the combined company. Any of these factors could cause delays or increased costs of combining the companies could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. Our ability to consummate the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty on terms that are favorable to us may also be limited by internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. We must obtain governmental and regulatory consents to consummate the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, may jeopardize or delay the proposed acquisition, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the combination contemplated by the proposed acquisition. The proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty is conditioned on the receipt of all material governmental authorizations, consents, orders and approvals, including U.S. antitrust clearance. If we do not receive these approvals, or do not receive them on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in any definitive acquisition agreement, or offer, then we may not be able to consummate the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty. The governmental agencies from which we will seek these approvals have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. These requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the consummation of the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty and/or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the combination contemplated by the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty. Further, no assurance can be given that the required consents and approvals will be obtained, and, if all required consents and 24 Table of Contents approvals are obtained, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals. Such terms and conditions could result in a failure to complete the proposed acquisition of Dollar Thrifty or have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. Acquisitions of existing Avis or Budget licensees, or acquisitions or investments in other businesses could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We have acquired and may acquire existing licensees and/or other businesses in the future and have invested in and may further invest in other businesses. These acquisitions and investments may involve numerous risks, including those associated with integrating operations, technology and personnel into our business, potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, and exposure to existing as well as unknown liabilities, including litigation involving the acquired entity. Such acquisitions and/or investments may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our indebtedness We have a substantial amount of debt, which could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2010, our total debt was approximately $7.0 billion and we had $797 million of available letter of credit and borrowing capacity under our senior credit facilities. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, or acquisitions and other purposes; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; and • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulation and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow and financial market conditions. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, and our cash needs may increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell or curtail assets or operations, seek additional capital, or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell or curtail our assets or operations, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Subject to the specified limitations referred to above, the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness in the future. As noted above, as of December 31, 2010, our revolving senior credit facilities provided us with aggregate capacity of up to $1,175 million, $797 million of which was available for borrowings. All of those borrowings would be secured and the lenders under our senior credit facilities would have a prior claim to the assets that secure such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. 25 Table of Contents We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial or other covenants contained in our debt instruments, including our senior credit facilities. Many of our debt instruments, including our senior credit facilities, contain financial and other covenants that impose significant requirements on us and limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient earnings to enable us to satisfy the financial covenants included in our debt instruments. Our failure to comply with these covenants, if not waived, would cause a default under the senior credit facilities and could result in principal under our $2.05 billion of asset-backed conduit facilities being required to be repaid from a portion of vehicle disposition proceeds and lease payments we make to our vehicle program subsidiaries. If such a failure were to occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or obtain a replacement for such facilities and in certain circumstances such failure could also give rise to a default under the instruments that govern our other indebtedness. We can be adversely impacted by disruptions in the credit and asset-backed securities markets, which could lead to increases in interest rates and could disrupt our ability to obtain financing for our operations, which require substantial capital. We rely upon financing for our operations, particularly asset-backed financing, through asset-backed securities and the lending market, for our vehicle fleet. Our total asset-backed debt as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $4.5 billion, with available capacity of approximately $2.4 billion. Our $2.05 billion asset-backed domestic rental car conduit facility (under which $30 million was outstanding at December 31, 2010) consists of a 364-day facility which matures in October 2011 and a two-year facility which matures in October 2012, each with a maximum available amount of $1.025 billion. If the asset-backed financing market is disrupted for any reason, we may be unable to obtain refinancing for our operations at current levels, or at all, when our asset-backed rental car financings mature, and any new financing or refinancing of our existing financing could increase our borrowing costs, including due to an increase in required collateral levels. In addition, we could be subject to increased collateral requirements to the extent we request any amendment or renewal of any of our existing financing. Ambac Assurance Corporation and MBIA Insurance Corporation provide financial guaranties for approximately $900 million and $300 million, respectively, of our approximately $4.0 billion of domestic term asset-backed car rental financing outstanding at December 31, 2010. The debt ratings of these financial guaranty firms have been downgraded significantly from the time in which the guarantees were entered into, and the firms have substantially curtailed their issuance of new guaranties. Therefore we are unlikely to be able to offer similar financial guaranties in connection with any refinancing we pursue for our term asset-backed financings. Assured Guaranty Corp. is also the provider of a financial guaranty for $250 million of our term asset-backed car rental financing. Certain insolvency events in respect of the financial guarantors of our outstanding term asset-backed financings would result in principal of the related financing being required to be repaid sooner than anticipated from a portion of the proceeds of ordinary course vehicle disposition and lease payments we make to our vehicle program subsidiaries. If such financings were not so repaid, these financial guarantor insolvency events could also result in the noteholders of the series of asset-backed notes guaranteed by the insolvent financial guarantor instructing the trustee to direct the return of program vehicles and/or the sale of non-program vehicles to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such series of notes. If such a financial guarantor insolvency event were to occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to replace the relevant financings on reasonable terms or at all. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A portion of our borrowings, primarily our vehicle-backed borrowings, bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, our total outstanding debt of approximately $7.0 billion included 26 Table of Contents unhedged interest rate sensitive debt of approximately $754 million. During our seasonal borrowing peak in 2010, outstanding unhedged interest rate sensitive debt totaled approximately $2.5 billion. Restrictive covenants in agreements and instruments governing our debt may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The terms of certain of our indebtedness, including the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes and the agreement governing our senior credit facilities contain, and our future debt instruments may contain, various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create or incur liens; • make distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make acquisitions; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. Risks related to the Separation We are relying on Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport to fulfill their obligations under the Separation Agreement and other agreements. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement and related agreements (including a tax sharing agreement, the “Tax Sharing Agreement”), Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide are responsible for 62.5% and 37.5%, respectively, of certain contingent and other of our corporate liabilities including those relating to unresolved tax and legal matters as well as 100% of certain liabilities that relate to their respective businesses (the “Assumed Obligations”). More specifically, Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide have generally assumed and are responsible for the payment of their specified percentage of (i) all taxes imposed on us and certain of our subsidiaries and (ii) certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities and/or those of our subsidiaries to the extent incurred prior to August 23, 2006. If either Realogy or Wyndham were to default in its payment, when due, of any such Assumed Obligations, each non-defaulting party, including us, would be required to pay an equal portion of the defaulted amounts, and any such default may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Realogy was acquired by an affiliate of Apollo Management VI, L.P. following the Separation. While the acquisition did not affect Realogy’s obligation to satisfy its specified percentage of its Assumed Obligations, as a 27 Table of Contents result of the acquisition, Realogy has greater debt obligations and its ability to satisfy its portion of such Assumed Obligations may be adversely impacted. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Realogy posted a letter of credit for the benefit of the Company to cover its estimated share of the Assumed Obligations. In conjunction with such Assumed Obligations, we had recorded receivables from Realogy of approximately $100 million as of December 31, 2010; the amount of the letter of credit posted by Realogy is designed to approximate the amount of such receivables and is subject to adjustment from time to time. There can be no assurance that such letter of credit will be sufficient or effective to cover Realogy’s actual obligations if and when they arise. In addition, the Separation Agreement effectively provides Realogy with the right to control the process for resolving disputes related to many of the Assumed Obligations. Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and/or Travelport (the “separated companies”) are required to indemnify us in respect of certain liabilities that related to their respective businesses, including certain effective guarantees that result from either us or one of our subsidiaries remaining a named lessee on real estate leases pertaining to properties occupied by the separated companies as well as certain litigation that pertains to the businesses of such companies in which we are also named. Any failure by the separated companies to pay any of their assumed liabilities when due or to indemnify us when required may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks related to our common stock The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock experienced substantial volatility in the past and may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry, including our suppliers; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, dispositions, strategies, marketing affiliations, projections, fleet costs, pricing actions or other competitive actions; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • changes in investors’ and analysts’ perceptions of our industry, business or related industries; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions and conditions in the credit markets. Shareholders’ percentage ownership may be diluted in the future. Shareholders’ percentage ownership may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances, conversion of our convertible senior notes due 2014, exercise of the warrants we issued in 2009 or equity awards that we granted or will grant to our directors, officers and employees. Holders of our convertible senior notes may convert their notes into up to 21.2 million shares of our common stock. In 2010, we granted approximately 160,000 stock options and approximately 2.0 million restricted stock units, and in January 2011, we granted approximately 975,000 restricted stock units. We also expect to grant restricted stock units, stock options and/or other types of equity awards in the future. 28 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the prospective acquirer and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; • the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our Company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of our Company and our stockholders. Conversion of our convertible senior notes due 2014, and the note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the notes, may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Any of the following transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock in connection with our issuance of $345 million of 3.5% convertible senior notes due 2014 and the note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with such issuance: • the conversion of some or all of our convertible senior notes, any sales by noteholders in the public market of our common stock issued upon such conversion and any selling of our common stock (including short selling) due to the existence of the notes; • the exercise of some or all of the warrants, any sales by warrantholders in the public market of our common stock issued upon such exercise of the warrants and any selling of our common stock (including short selling) due to the existence of the warrants; and • the entry into, or the modification or the unwinding of, various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock by the counterparties in connection with their obligations under the note hedge and warrant transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents 