ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties. In addition to the matters described above under “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information,” set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause a material adverse change in our results of operations or financial condition. A continuation of the current economic downturn could result in declines in our sales and earnings. Overall demand for our products depends upon consumer demand for furniture and bedding, which is subject to variations in the general economy. Because purchases of furniture or bedding are discretionary purchases for most individuals and businesses, demand for these products is sometimes more easily influenced by economic trends than demand for other products. Economic downturns can affect consumer spending habits and demand for home furnishings, which reduces the demand for our products and therefore could cause a decrease in our sales and earnings. The ongoing economic slowdown has caused a decrease in consumer spending and demand for home furnishings, including goods that incorporate our products. It has been difficult to maintain and increase sales levels in the upholstery fabrics segment. Although sales increased in fiscal 2010 for our upholstery fabrics segment, this was the first annual increase in sales for this business in ten fiscal years. Increased competition and fragmentation of the upholstery fabrics business, including a dramatic shift to imported fabrics and resulting price deflation for upholstery fabrics, have led to a significant reduction in the size of our upholstery business. The growth and profitability achieved by this segment in fiscal 2010 are encouraging, but there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or consistently grow this business in the future. Increased reliance on offshore operations and foreign sources of products or raw materials increases the likelihood of disruptions to our supply chain or our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. We now rely significantly on operations in distant locations, particularly China, and in addition we have been purchasing an increasing share of our products and raw materials from offshore sources. At the same time, our domestic manufacturing capacity for the upholstery fabrics segment has been greatly reduced. These changes have caused us to place greater reliance on a much longer supply chain and on a larger number of suppliers that we do not control, both of which are inherently subject to greater risks of delay or disruption. In addition, operations and sourcing in foreign areas are subject to the risk of changing local governmental rules, taxes, changes in import rules or customs, potential political unrest, or other threats that could disrupt or increase the costs of operating in foreign areas or sourcing products overseas. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies can affect our financial results because a significant portion of our operations are located outside the United States. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies can have a negative impact on our sales of products produced in those countries. Any of the risks associated with foreign operations and sources could cause unanticipated increases in operating costs or disruptions in business, which could negatively impact our ultimate financial results. 17 We may have difficulty managing the outsourcing arrangements increasingly being used for products and services. We are relying more on outside sources for various products and services, including yarn and other raw materials, greige (unfinished) fabrics, finished fabrics, and services such as weaving and finishing. Increased reliance on outsourcing lowers our capital investment and fixed costs, but it decreases the amount of control that we have over certain elements of our production capacity. Interruptions in our ability to obtain raw materials or other required products or services from our outside suppliers on a timely and cost effective basis, especially if alternative suppliers cannot be immediately obtained, could disrupt our production and damage our financial results. Further write-offs or write-downs of assets would result in a decrease in our earnings and shareholders’ equity. The company has long-lived assets, consisting mainly of property, plant and equipment and goodwill. ASC Topic 360 establishes an impairment accounting model for long-lived assets such as property, plant, and equipment and requires the company to assess for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recovered. ASC Topic 350 requires that goodwill be tested at least annually for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recovered. Restructuring activities and other tests for impairment have resulted and could in the future result in the write-down of a portion of our long-lived assets and a corresponding reduction in earnings and net worth. In fiscal 2008, the compa ny experienced asset write-downs of property, plant and equipment of $792,000, of which $503,000 related to the upholstery fabrics segment and $289,000 related to the mattress fabrics segment. In fiscal 2009, we experienced an additional $8 million in similar write-downs in the upholstery fabrics segment. Although no write-downs were experienced in fiscal 2010, there is no assurance that future write-downs of fixed assets or goodwill will not occur if business conditions deteriorate. 18 Changes in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase our costs or cause production delays and sales interruptions, which would result in decreased earnings. We depend upon outside suppliers for most of our raw material needs, and increasingly we rely upon outside suppliers for component materials such as yarn and unfinished fabrics, as well as for certain services such as finishing and weaving. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of these goods and services could have a negative effect on our production costs and ability to meet the demands of our customers, which would affect our ability to generate sales and earnings. In many cases, we are not able to pass through increased costs of raw materials or increased production costs to our customers through price increases. In particular, many of our basic raw materials are petrochemical products or are produced from such products. For this reason, our material costs are especially sen sitive to changes in prices for petrochemicals and the underlying price of oil. Increases in prices for oil, petrochemical products or other raw materials and services provided by outside suppliers could significantly increase our costs and negatively affect earnings. Increases in energy costs would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect earnings. Higher prices for electricity, natural gas and fuel increase our production and shipping costs. A significant shortage, increased prices, or interruptions in the availability of these energy sources would increase the costs of producing and delivering products to our customers, and would be likely to adversely affect our earnings. In many cases, we are not able to pass along the full extent of increases in our production costs to customers through price increases. During fiscal 2008, energy prices increased significantly, in part due to increases in the price of oil and other petrochemical products. Although some price increases were implemented to offset the effect of these increased costs, we were not able to fully recoup these costs, and operating margins were negatively affected. 60;Energy costs eased somewhat in fiscal 2009 and 2010, but remain a volatile element of our costs. Further increases in energy costs could have a negative effect on our earnings. Business difficulties or failures of large customers could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. We currently have several customers that account for a substantial portion of our sales. In the mattress fabric segment, several large bedding manufacturers have large market shares and comprise a significant portion of our mattress fabric sales, with Sealy, Inc. and Serta (National Bedding) accounting for approximately 22% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010. In the upholstery fabrics segment, La-Z-Boy Incorporated accounted for approximately 12% of consolidated net sales during fiscal 2010, and several other large furniture manufacturers comprised a significant portion of sales. A business failure or other significant financial difficulty by one or more of our major customers could cause a significant loss in sales, an adverse effect on our earnings, and difficulty in collection of our trade acco unts receivable. 19 Loss of market share due to competition would result in declines in sales and could result in losses or decreases in earnings. Our business is highly competitive, and in particular the upholstery fabric industry is fragmented and is experiencing an increase in the number of competitors. As a result, we face significant competition from a large number of competitors, both foreign and domestic. We compete with many other manufacturers of fabric, as well as converters who source fabrics from various producers and market them to manufacturers of furniture and bedding. In many cases, these fabrics are sourced from foreign suppliers who have a lower cost structure than the company. The highly competitive nature of our business means we are constantly subject to the risk of losing market share. Our sales of upholstery fabrics have decreased significantly over the past ten fiscal years due in part to the increased number of competitors in the marketplace, especially foreign sources of fabric. As a result of increased competition, there have been deflationary pressures on the prices for many of our products, which make it more difficult to pass along increased operating costs such as raw materials, energy or labor in the form of price increases and puts downward pressure on our profit margins. Also, the large number of competitors and wide range of product offerings in our business can make it more difficult to differentiate our products through design, styling, finish and other techniques. If we fail to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends, our sales and earnings may decline. Demand for various types of upholstery fabrics and mattress coverings change over time due to fashion trends and changing consumer tastes for furniture and bedding. Our success in marketing our fabrics depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to fashion trends in home furnishings. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our sales of these products may decline. In addition, incorrect projections about the demand for certain products could cause the accumulation of excess raw material or finished goods inventory, which could lead to inventory mark-downs and further decreases in earnings. Restructuring initiatives create short-term costs that may not be offset by increased savings or efficiencies. Over several years prior to the most recent fiscal year, we undertook significant restructuring activities, which involved closing manufacturing plants, realigning manufacturing assets, and changes in product strategy. These actions lowered our manufacturing costs and increased efficiency, but they also involved significant costs, including inventory markdowns, the write-off or write-down of assets, severance costs for terminated employees, contract termination costs, equipment moving costs, and similar charges. These charges caused significant decreases in earnings in prior fiscal years. There were no new restructuring initiatives in fiscal 2010, and we do not have any current plans for additional restructuring activities, but a significant and unanticipated downturn in business could lead to additiona l restructuring changes in the future. 20 We are subject to litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact our sales and earnings. We are, and in the future may be, a party to legal proceedings and claims, including environmental matters, product liability and employment disputes, some of which claim significant damages. We face the continual business risk of exposure to claims that our business operations have caused personal injury or property damage. We maintain insurance against product liability claims and in some cases have indemnification agreements with regard to environmental claims, but there can be no assurance that these arrangements will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that such arrangements will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, there can be no assurance that claims against the company will not have a material adverse impact on our earnings or financial condition. We are also subject to various laws and regulations in our business, including those relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment. We could incur substantial costs as a result of noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws or other regulations. We must comply with a number of governmental regulations applicable to our business, and changes in those regulations could adversely affect our business. Our products and raw materials are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the United States by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the manufacture, sale and distribution of our products and raw materials. For example, standards for flame resistance of fabrics have been recently adopted on a nationwide basis. Also, rules and restrictions regarding the importation of fabrics and other materials, including custom duties, quotas and other regulations, are continually changing. Environmental laws, labor laws, tax regulations and other regulations continually affect our business. All of these rules and regulations can and do change from time to time, which can increase our costs or require us to make changes in our manufacturing processes, product mix, sources of products and raw materials, or distribution. Changes in the rules and regulations applicable to our business may negatively impact our sales and earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 