Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A herein, in connection with any forward-looking statements that may be made by us and our businesses generally. Except for our ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events unless required by law. For any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, the “Company”, “Avis Budget”, “we”, “our” or “us” means Avis Budget Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries and “Avis Budget Car Rental” or “ABCR” means Avis Budget Car Rental, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and its subsidiaries, the companies that comprise our vehicle rental operations. “Avis” and “Budget” refer to our Avis and Budget operations, respectively, and do not include the operations of Avis Europe and its affiliates, as further discussed below. We operate two of the most recognized brands in the global vehicle rental industry through Avis and Budget. Avis is a leading rental car supplier to the premium commercial and leisure segments of the travel industry and Budget is a leading rental car supplier to the price-conscious segments of the industry. We believe we are the largest general-use vehicle rental operator in each of North America, Australia, New Zealand and certain other regions we serve, based on published airport statistics. We maintain the leading share of airport car rental revenue and operate one of the leading consumer truck rental businesses in the United States. Our car rental operations generate significant benefits from operating two distinctive brands that target different industry segments but share the same fleet, maintenance facilities, systems, technology and administrative infrastructure. We believe that Avis and Budget both enjoy complementary demand patterns with mid-week commercial demand balanced by weekend leisure demand. For 2007, our vehicle rental operations generated revenues of $5,968 million. The Avis, Budget and Budget Truck brands accounted for approximately 63%, 30% and 7% of our vehicle rental revenue, respectively, in 2007. Our operations have an extended global reach that includes approximately 6,900 car and truck rental locations in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, the Caribbean and parts of the Pacific region. On average, our rental fleet totaled more than 425,000 vehicles, and we completed more than 28 million vehicle rental transactions worldwide in 2007. Domestically, in 2007 we derived approximately 81% of our nearly $4.0 billion in car rental revenue from on-airport locations and approximately 19% of our domestic car rental revenue from off-airport locations, which we refer to as our local business. We expanded our local business in 2007, which included an increase in our insurance replacement revenue by approximately 25%, and plan to continue this expansion further in 2008. We rent our fleet of approximately 28,700 Budget trucks through a network of approximately 2,500 dealer-operated, 230 company-operated and 85 franchisee-operated locations throughout the continental United States. We also license the use of the Avis and Budget trademarks to multiple licensees in areas in which we do not operate. The Avis and/or Budget vehicle rental systems in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and parts of Asia are operated at approximately 3,600 locations by subsidiaries and sub-licensees of an independent third party primarily under royalty-free trademark license agreements. We categorize our operations in three operating segments: domestic car rental, consisting of our Avis and Budget U.S. car rental operations; international car rental, consisting of our international Avis and Budget car rental operations; and truck rental, consisting of our Budget truck rental operations. In 2007: • our domestic car rental business generated approximately 92 million rental days and time and mileage revenue per day of $40.06 with an average rental fleet of approximately 340,889 vehicles; • our international car rental business generated approximately 14 million rental days and time and mileage revenue per day of $43.54 with an average rental fleet of approximately 55,703 vehicles; and • our truck rental business generated approximately 4.2 million rental days and time and mileage revenue per day of $79.17 with an average rental fleet of approximately 28,700 trucks. 1 Table of Contents For 2008, our objective is to enhance growth, profitability and our position as a leader in the vehicle rental industry. We expect to achieve our goals by focusing our efforts on the following core strategic initiatives: • Optimizing Our Two-Brand Strategy. We plan to continue to position our two distinct and well-recognized brands to capture different segments of customer demand. With Avis as a premium brand preferred by corporate and upscale leisure travelers, and Budget as a value brand preferred by cost-conscious travelers, we believe we are able to target a broad range of demand, particularly since the two brands share the same operational and administrative infrastructure while providing differentiated though consistently high levels of customer service. We aim to provide products, service and pricing, and to maintain marketing affiliations and corporate account contracts, which complement each brand’s positioning. In addition, we use various marketing channels as appropriate for each of our brands and seek to continue to increase the volume of reservations that we generate through our avis.com and budget.com websites, which are among our least-expensive sources of advance bookings. • Expanding Our Revenue Sources. We plan to expand the revenues we generate from sources beyond on-airport time and mileage rental fees. We seek to grow off-airport revenue for Avis and Budget by opening new locations and continuing our effort to identify and attract local demand. In particular, we plan to increase our revenues in the insurance replacement sector, in which we have historically had a more limited presence, and we employ a dedicated local sales team to expand our insurance replacement, local truck rental and off-airport general-use rental volumes. Separately, we look to expand our revenue sources by offering additional products and services to existing on- and off-airport customers, including additional insurance coverages and insurance-related and other ancillary products and services, such as electronic toll collection services and our Where2 GPS navigation product (which was launched in the United States in 2006 and in Canada in 2007). In October 2007 we acquired a minority interest in Carey Holdings, Inc., the leading provider of chauffeured ground transportation services worldwide, as well as a one-year option to increase our holdings to a majority interest. If we exercise our option, we expect to expand revenue by offering our customers a full range of ground transportation products. • Capturing Incremental Profit Opportunities. We plan to continue our focus on yield management and pricing optimization, rigorous cost controls, fleet diversification and process improvement. We are developing technology that will allow us to strengthen our yield management and we have implemented technology that enables us to tailor our product/price offerings to specific customer segments, including technology that allows Avis and Budget to target customers with rates and prices based on past shopping and rental behavior. We also plan to acquire and develop technology that will help us optimize our fleet acquisition and disposal decisions. With respect to fleet diversification, in an effort to mitigate expected increases in fleet costs, we are seeking to adjust our relationships with vehicle manufacturers by continuing to move to a more balanced multi-supplier model, increasing the risk-vehicle portion of our fleet and lengthening the average hold period. In addition, we believe the expansion of our revenue sources (discussed above) will permit us to generate incremental profits from our customer base, while at the same time enhancing their vehicle rental experience. In 2007, we launched our Performance Excellence process improvement initiative to identify methods to increase efficiency throughout our operations and generate sustainable cost savings, which we believe will have a significant impact on our financial performance. In 2007, we made continued progress toward our strategic objectives. We retained approximately 98% of our commercial contracts. Avis and Budget maintained their marketing alliances with USAA and AARP, which are long-time Avis marketing partners, and Budget grew its award-winning small business program. We opened approximately 195 new off-airport locations in 2007, and off-airport revenues represented 19% of our domestic car rental revenues. We are an “approved” or “preferred” provider for customers of a majority of the largest auto insurance companies in the United States. In 2007, we continued to increase revenue related to rentals of Where2 GPS navigation system units, loss damage waivers and insurance products, and other ancillary services. In the 2 Table of Contents area of cost management, we have continued to reduce our reliance on individual fleet suppliers and to diversify our fleet purchases, and we established our Performance Excellence program to identify and effect potential process-improvement and cost saving opportunities. We are utilizing sophisticated yield-management technology to optimize our pricing and fleet planning, and we continue to analyze and streamline our operations to gain efficiencies. And, most importantly, our more than 30,000 employees continue to provide reliable, high-quality vehicle rental services that foster customer satisfaction and customer loyalty. * * * 3 Table of Contents Company Information Our principal executive office is located at 6 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 (telephone number: (973) 496-4700). We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and in accordance therewith, we file reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Commission and certain of our officers and directors file statements of changes in beneficial ownership on Form 4 with the Commission. Such reports (including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports), proxy statements and other information and such Form 4s can be accessed on our website at www.avisbudget.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Commission. A copy of our Codes of Conduct and Ethics, as defined under Item 406 of Regulation S-K, including any amendments thereto or waivers thereof, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Director Independence Criteria and Board Committee Charters can also be accessed on our website. We will provide, free of charge, a copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, Codes of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Board Committee Charters upon request by phone or in writing at the above phone number or address, attention: Investor Relations. In accordance with New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Rules, on June 14, 2007, we filed the annual certification by our Chief Executive Officer certifying that he was unaware of any violation by us of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards at the time of the certification. Company History We were created through a merger with HFS Incorporated in December 1997 with the resultant corporation being renamed Cendant Corporation. On August 23, 2006, Cendant completed a separation into four separate companies (the “Cendant Separation”), one for each of its former Real Estate Services businesses (Realogy Corporation), its former Hospitality Services businesses (Wyndham Worldwide Corporation), its former Travel Distribution Services businesses (Travelport) and its Vehicle Rental businesses (Cendant, now Avis Budget Group). Following completion of the Cendant Separation, Cendant changed its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. and our common stock began to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CAR.” Avis Budget Group’s operations consist of two of the most recognized brands in the global vehicle rental industry through Avis Budget Car Rental, LLC, the parent of Avis Rent A Car System, LLC, Budget Rent A Car System, Inc. and Budget Truck Rental, LLC. Founded in 1946, Avis is believed to be the first company to rent cars from airport locations. Avis expanded its geographic reach throughout the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. In 1963, Avis introduced its award winning “We try harder” advertising campaign, which is considered one of the top ten advertising campaigns of all time by Advertising Age magazine. Budget was founded in 1958. The company name was chosen to appeal to the “budget-minded” or “value-conscious” vehicle rental customer. Avis possesses a long history of using proprietary information technology systems in its business, and its established, but continually updated, Wizard System remains the backbone of our operations. We acquired the Avis brand in 1996, Avis’ capital stock in 2001, and the Budget brand and substantially all of the domestic and certain international assets of Budget’s predecessor in 2002. In addition to our vehicle rental operations, we continue to manage the administration of certain legacy items which remain following the completion of the Cendant Separation. In connection with the Cendant Separation, we entered into certain agreements, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of July 27, 2006 (the “Separation Agreement”), with Realogy, Wyndham and Travelport governing our relationships following the separation, including the assumption by Realogy and Wyndham of 62.5% and 37.5%, respectively, of certain contingent and other liabilities of Cendant. 4 Table of Contents Car rental business Operations—Avis We operate or franchise approximately 2,200 of the approximately 5,100 rental locations that comprise the Avis car rental system (the “Avis System”), which represents one of the largest car rental systems in the world, based on total revenue and number of locations, and encompasses locations at most of the largest airports and cities in the United States and internationally. The Avis System in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and parts of Asia is primarily operated under royalty-free license agreements with Avis Europe Holdings, Limited (“Avis Europe”), an independent third party, and is comprised of approximately 2,900 locations operated by Avis Europe and its sub-licensees. We own and operate approximately 1,300 Avis car rental locations in both the on-airport and local rental segments in North America, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America and the Caribbean. In 2007, Avis generated total revenue of approximately $3.7 billion, of which approximately 83% (or $3.1 billion) was derived from U.S. operations. In addition, we franchise the Avis System to independent business owners in approximately 850 locations throughout the United States, Canada, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand and parts of the Pacific region. In 2007, approximately 95% of the Avis System total domestic revenue was generated by our locations and the remainder was generated by locations operated by franchisees. Franchisees generally pay royalty fees to us based either on total time and mileage charges or total revenue. In 2007, Avis derived approximately 62% and 38% of its domestic time and mileage revenue from commercial and leisure customers, respectively, and 81% and 19% of its domestic revenue from customers renting at airports and locally, respectively. We have continued to focus efforts in 2007 on increasing the amount of revenue we generate locally from customers who rent in order to temporarily replace their own cars when they are being repaired or are otherwise unavailable. The Avis brand provides high-quality car rental services at price points generally above non-branded and value-branded national car rental companies. We offer Avis customers a variety of premium services, including: • Avis Preferred, a counter bypass program, which is available at major airport locations; • Where2, a navigation system with real-time traffic alerts, including weather delays, construction tie-ups and traffic snarls, which suggests alternative routes and features Bluetooth hands-free calling and MP3 playback capability as well as directions in multiple languages; • Avis Cool Cars, a line of fun-to-drive vehicles such as the Cadillac CTS, Chevrolet Corvette, Chrysler Crossfire and Hummer H3, as well as eco-friendly Nissan Altima and Toyota Prius “hybrid” vehicles; • Roving Rapid Return, wireless technology, which permits customers who are returning vehicles to obtain a printed charge record from service agents at the vehicle as it is being returned; • Avis Cares, a program which provides customers with area-specific driver safety information, the latest child safety seats (available for rent), local information and driving maps; • Avis Access, a full range of special products and services for drivers and passengers with disabilities; • Avis Interactive, a proprietary management tool that allows select corporate clients to easily view and analyze their rental activity via the Internet through account analysis and activity reports, allowing these clients to better manage their travel budgets and monitor employee compliance with applicable travel policies; 5 Table of Contents • The Avis First Program, a new customer loyalty program that rewards customers with additional benefits for frequent rentals; and • Chauffeur Drive, a premium service which allows customers to hire a professional driver to drive their Avis rental car through an arrangement with a third party provider. Operations—Budget The Budget vehicle rental system (the “Budget System”) is one of the largest car rental systems in the world, based on total revenue and number of locations. We operate or franchise approximately 1,900 of the approximately 2,600 car rental locations in the Budget System, including locations at most of the largest airports and cities in the United States and certain other regions. The Budget System in Europe, Africa and the Middle East is operated under a royalty-free trademark license agreement with an independent third party, which is an affiliate of Avis Europe and is comprised of approximately 700 additional company-operated and sub-licensee locations. We own and operate approximately 800 Budget car rental locations in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Australia and New Zealand. In 2007, our Budget car rental operations generated total revenue of approximately $1.8 billion, of which 86% (or $1.5 billion) was derived from U.S. operations. We also franchise the Budget System to independent business owners who operate approximately 1,100 locations throughout the United States, Canada, Latin America, the Caribbean and parts of the Asia Pacific region. In 2007, approximately 84% of the Budget System domestic total revenue was generated by our locations with the remainder generated by locations operated by independent franchisees. Independent franchisees generally pay royalty fees to us based on gross rental revenue. In 2007, Budget derived 24% and 76% of its domestic time and mileage car rental revenue from commercial and leisure customers, respectively, and 80% and 20% of its domestic car rental revenue from customers renting at airports and locally, respectively. Budget is a leading rental car supplier to the price-conscious segments of the industry, and Budget was named “Leading Provider of Outstanding Car Rental Deals” in April 2007 by Travelzoo, a global Internet media company. Budget offers its customers Fastbreak, an expedited rental service for frequent travelers, which operates much like Avis Preferred. Budget also offers the Budget Small Business Program, a program for small businesses that offers discounted rates and central billing options, and Unlimited Budget, a loyalty program for travel professionals established by Budget over ten years ago. Budget also offers Where2 and Roving Rapid Return, as described above. Reservations Customers can make Avis and Budget reservations through our Avis and Budget websites at avis.com and budget.com, through our reservation centers (also referred to as contact centers) toll-free at 1-888-777-AVIS and 1-800-BUDGET7, respectively, through online travel portals, through selected partners, including many major airlines utilizing direct connect technology, through their travel agent or by calling a location directly. Travel agents can access our reservation systems through all major global distribution systems and can obtain information with respect to rental locations, vehicle availability and applicable rate structures through these systems. Marketing Avis and Budget support their premium and value brand positions through a range of marketing channels and campaigns, including traditional media, such as television, radio and print advertising, as well as Internet and direct marketing. Avis focuses its marketing around its industry-leading customer loyalty and its award-winning “We try harder” campaign. Budget builds its marketing around retail advertising, key partnerships and online marketing campaigns. 6 Table of Contents We maintain strong links to the travel industry. Avis and Budget offer customers the ability to earn frequent traveler points with most major airlines’ frequent traveler programs. Avis and Budget are also affiliated with the frequency programs of major hotel companies, including Hilton Hotels Corporation, Hyatt Corporation, Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc. and Wyndham Worldwide. These arrangements provide incentives to program participants and cooperative marketing opportunities, including call transfer programs and online links with various partners’ websites. Avis has an agreement with Wyndham Worldwide’s lodging brands whereby lodging customers making reservations by telephone may be transferred to Avis if they desire to rent a vehicle. In 2007, approximately 79% of domestic vehicle rental transactions from our owned and operated Avis locations in the United States were generated by travelers who rented from Avis under contracts between Avis and the travelers’ employers or through membership in an organization with whom Avis has a contractual affiliation (such as AARP). Avis also has marketing relationships with American Express Company and Sears, Roebuck & Co., through which we are able to provide customers of these companies with incentives to rent from Avis. Avis franchisees also have the option to participate in these affiliations. For commercial and leisure travelers who are unaffiliated with any of the employers or organizations that we contract with, Avis solicits business through media, direct mail, e-mail and Internet advertising. Avis conducts various loyalty programs through direct marketing campaigns, including Avis Preferred, which allows customers to bypass the counter, and Avis First, which offers our customers certain benefits for frequent rentals. As a result of these programs, Avis has been ranked as the top rental car brand for customer loyalty for nine consecutive years by a leading third party research firm. Travel agents are also able to participate in the Avis travel agent reward program, Club Red. Similarly, Budget offers “Unlimited Budget”, a loyalty incentive program for travel agents which had approximately 18,600 travel agents actively enrolled as of December 31, 2007, and the Budget Small Business Program, a program for small businesses that offers discounted rates and central billing options. Budget also has contractual arrangements with American Express Company and other organizations which offer members of these groups incentives to rent from Budget. In connection with its focus on price-conscious customers, Budget primarily relies on retail advertising, including Internet advertising, and on value pricing to drive customers to our Budget website, our call centers and other distribution channels. Budget also offers proprietary marketing programs such as Fastbreak, an expedited rental service for frequent renters. Our international Avis and Budget operations maintain close relationships with the travel industry through participation in several non-U.S. based frequent traveler programs with airlines such as Air Canada and Qantas Airways Limited, as well as participation in Avis Europe’s programs with British Airways Plc, Deutsche Lufthansa AG and other carriers. Franchising Of the approximately 2,200 Avis and approximately 1,900 Budget car rental locations we operated and/or franchised at December 31, 2007, approximately 39% and 57%, respectively, were owned and operated by franchisees. Revenue derived from our car rental franchisees in 2007 totaled approximately $35 million. Franchised locations range from large operations at major airport locations to franchise territories encompassing an entire country to relatively small operations in suburban locations. Fleets of our franchisees range from fleets in excess of 3,000 vehicles to fleets of fewer than 50 vehicles. Franchising provides us with a source of high margin revenue as there are relatively limited additional fixed costs associated with fees paid by franchisees to us. Although franchised locations represent approximately half of the locations that we own or franchise, they represent only approximately 9% of total domestic revenue generated by the Avis and Budget Systems, as the average franchised operation is significantly smaller than the average owned location. Generally, we do not actively seek new franchisees in the United States or Canada. We enjoy good relationships with our franchisees and meet regularly with them at regional, national and international meetings. Our relationships with Avis and/or Budget franchisees are governed by franchise agreements that grant the franchisees the right to operate Avis and/or Budget vehicle rental businesses in certain 7 Table of Contents exclusive territories. These franchise agreements impose obligations on the franchisee regarding the operations of each franchise and most restrict the franchisee’s ability to transfer its franchise agreement and the franchisee’s capital stock. Each franchisee is required to adhere to our system standards for each brand as updated and supplemented by our policy bulletins, brand manuals and service programs. We maintain the right to monitor the operations of franchisees and, when applicable, can declare a franchise to be in default under its franchise agreements, which may or may not be curable. We can terminate these franchise agreements for certain defaults, including failure to pay franchise fees and failure to adhere to our operational standards. Our franchise agreements grant the franchisees the exclusive right to operate an Avis and/or Budget car and/or truck rental business in a particular geographic area. Under agreements that predate our ownership of Avis or Budget, a limited number of franchisees in the United States are also separately franchised exclusively to sell used cars under the Avis and/or Budget brand. Our current franchise agreements provide for a 20-year term. Certain existing franchise agreements provide for renewal terms for no additional fee so long as the franchisee is not in default. Upon renewal, the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement may generally be amended from those contained in the expiring franchise agreements, while language in certain older franchise agreements may limit our ability to do so. The car rental royalty fee payable to us under franchise agreements is generally 5% to 7.5% of gross rental revenue but certain franchisees of each brand, both internationally and domestically, have franchise agreements with different royalty fee structures. Pursuant to their franchise agreements, some franchisees must meet certain requirements relating to the number of rental locations in their franchised territory, the number of vehicles available for rental and the amount of their advertising and promotional expenditures. In general, each franchise agreement provides that the franchisee must not engage in any other vehicle rental business within the franchised territory during the term of such agreement and, in the Budget franchise agreement, for 12 months thereafter. Upon termination of a franchise, the franchisee is also prohibited from using the Avis or Budget name and related marks in any business. Other revenue In addition to revenue from vehicle rentals and franchisee royalties, we generate revenue from Avis and Budget customers through the sale and/or rental of optional products and services such as supplemental equipment (for example, child seats and ski racks), loss damage waivers, additional/supplemental liability insurance, personal accident/effects insurance, fuel service options, fuel service charges, electronic toll collection and other ancillary products and services as described above, such as rentals of Where2 GPS navigation units which in 2007 contributed more than $35 million to pretax income. In 2007, approximately 4% of our vehicle rental operations revenue was generated by the sale of loss damage waivers under which we agree to relieve a customer from financial responsibility arising from vehicle damage incurred during the rental period if the customer has not breached the rental agreement. In addition, we receive reimbursement from our customers for certain operating expenses we incur, including gasoline and vehicle licensing fees, as well as airport concession fees, which we pay in exchange for the right to operate at airports and other locations. Websites Avis and Budget have strong brand presence on the Internet through their websites, avis.com and budget.com, as well as third party websites. In 2007, the number of Avis and Budget vehicle rental customers who obtained rate, location and fleet information and then reserved their rentals directly on these websites increased. Direct bookings via our websites incur less cost per transaction than bookings made through our voice reservation agents or through third party distribution systems. Therefore, an increase in Internet bookings generates cost savings for us. In addition, both Avis and Budget have agreements to promote their car rental services with major Internet portals and have a strong advertising presence on various search engines. Bookings over the Internet accounted for 52% of Budget’s 2007 domestic reservations, with 32% of reservations derived from bookings on budget.com. Bookings over the Internet accounted for 32% of Avis’ domestic reservations, with 25% derived from bookings on avis.com. In 2007, avis.com reservations grew by 16% and budget.com reservations grew by 10% over the prior year. 8 Table of Contents The Wizard System We own the Wizard System, our worldwide reservation, rental, data processing and information management system. The Wizard System enables us to process over one million incoming customer inquiries each day, providing our customers with accurate and timely information about our locations, rental rates and vehicle availability, as well as the ability to place or modify reservations. Additionally, the Wizard System is linked to all major travel distribution networks worldwide and provides real-time processing for travel agents, travel industry partners (such as airlines), corporate travel departments and individual consumers through our websites or calls to our contact centers. The Wizard System also provides personal profile information to our reservation and rental agents to better service our customers. Among the principal features of the Wizard System are: • “Roving Rapid Return”, wireless technology which permits customers who are returning vehicles to obtain a printed charge record from service agents at the vehicle as it is being returned; • “Preferred Service”, Avis’ expedited rental service that provides enrolled customers with a printed Preferred Service rental record in their pre-assigned vehicle and a fast, convenient check-out; • “Fastbreak”, Budget’s expedited rental service which allows for a faster processing of rentals and service for enrolled customers; • “Wizard on Wheels”, which enables us to assign vehicles and complete rental agreements while customers are being transported to the rental vehicle; • “Flight Arrival Notification”, a system that alerts rental locations when flights have arrived so that vehicles can be assigned and paperwork prepared automatically; • “Avis Link”, which automatically identifies when a customer with a profile on record is entitled to special rental rates and conditions, and therefore sharply reduces the number of instances in which we inadvertently fail to give Avis renters the benefits of negotiated rate arrangements to which they are entitled; • “Credit Card Link”, which allows both brands to verify all major credit cards through a real-time connection during the rental processing; • interactive interfaces through third party computerized reservation systems such as Galileo and Sabre; • “Avis Interactive”, which allows select corporate clients to easily view and analyze their rental activity via the Internet through account analysis and activity reports, allowing these clients to better manage their travel budgets and monitor employee compliance with applicable travel policies; • “Direct Connect”, a service offered to business to business partners that allows them to easily connect their electronic systems to the Wizard System, for either brand, and to obtain rate, location and fleet information as well as book reservations for their customers; and • operations management programs that, among other things, enable field personnel to manage which vehicles will be rented next. We also use data supplied from the Wizard System and airline reservation systems in certain proprietary information management systems to maintain centralized control of major business processes such as fleet acquisition and logistics, sales to corporate accounts and determination of rental rates. The principal components of the systems we employ include: • Fleet planning model. We have created a comprehensive decision tool to develop fleet plans and schedules for the acquisition and disposition of our fleet, along with fleet age, mix, mileage and cost 9 Table of Contents reports based upon these plans and schedules. This tool allows management to monitor and change fleet volume and composition on a daily basis and to optimize our fleet plan based on estimated business levels and available repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs. • Yield management. We have created a yield management system which is designed to enhance profits by providing greater control of vehicle availability and rate availability changes at our rental locations. The system monitors and forecasts supply and demand to support our efforts to optimize volume and rate at each location. Integrated into this yield management system is a fleet distribution module that takes into consideration the costs as well as the potential benefits associated with distributing vehicles to various rental locations within a geographic area to accommodate rental demand at these locations. The fleet distribution module makes specific recommendations for movement of vehicles between locations. • Pricing decision support system. Pricing in the vehicle rental industry is highly competitive and complex. To improve our ability to respond to rental rate changes in the marketplace, we have developed sophisticated systems to gather and report competitive industry rental rate changes every day. The system, using data from third party reservation systems as its source of information, automatically scans rate movements and reports significant changes to a staff of pricing analysts for evaluation. The system greatly enhances our ability to gather and respond to rate changes in the marketplace. • Business mix model. We have developed a strategic planning model to evaluate discrete components of our business relative to each other. The model considers revenue and costs to determine the potential margin contribution of each discrete segment. The model develops business mix and fleet optimization recommendations by using data from our financial systems, the Wizard System and the fleet and revenue management systems along with management’s objectives and targets. • Customer profitability model. We have developed a sophisticated model which analyzes a corporate customer’s rental pattern to estimate the fleet costs, operations costs and division overhead expenses associated with that customer’s vehicle rentals. We use this profitability model to determine the financial merit of individual corporate contracts. • Enterprise data warehouse. We have developed a sophisticated and comprehensive electronic data storage and retrieval system which retains information related to various aspects of our business. This data warehouse allows us to take advantage of comprehensive management reports, query capability and easy access to data for strategic decision making for both brands. • Sales and marketing systems. We have developed a sophisticated system of online data screens which enables our sales force to analyze key account information of our corporate customers including historical and current rental activity, revenue and booking sources, top renting locations, rate usage categories and customer satisfaction data. We use this information, which is updated weekly and captured on a country-by-country basis, to determine opportunities for revenue growth, profitability and improvement. • Interactive adjustments. We have developed a multi-linked customer data system which allows us to easily retrieve pertinent customer information and make needed adjustments online for superior customer service. This data system links with other accounting systems to handle any charge card transactions automatically. Fleet General. We maintain a single fleet of vehicles for Avis and Budget. We rent a wide variety of vehicles, including luxury and specialty vehicles. Our fleet consists primarily of vehicles from the current and immediately preceding model year. Rentals are generally made on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. Rental charges are 10 Table of Contents computed on the basis of the length of the rental or, in some cases, on the length of the rental plus a mileage charge. Rates vary at different locations depending on the type of vehicle rented, the local marketplace and competitive and cost factors. Rentals are made utilizing rate plans under which the customer is responsible for gasoline used during the rental. We also generally offer our customers the convenience of leaving a rented vehicle at a location in a city other than the one in which it was rented, although, consistent with industry practices, a drop-off charge or special intercity rate may be imposed. We facilitate one-way car rentals between corporate-owned and franchised locations in the United States that enable us to operate as an integrated network of locations. Vehicle purchasing. We participate in a variety of vehicle purchase programs with major domestic and foreign vehicle manufacturers. General Motors is the featured supplier for Avis, and Ford is the featured supplier for Budget. During 2007, approximately 44%, 26% and 15% of the cars acquired for our U.S. car rental fleet were manufactured by General Motors, Ford and Chrysler, respectively, compared to 42%, 32% and 12%, respectively, in 2006. During 2007, we also purchased Hyundai, Kia, Nissan, Subaru, Suzuki, Toyota and Volkswagen vehicles. The decrease in the portion of our fleet sourced from Ford in 2007 is reflective of our overall efforts to diversify our fleet, which we expect to continue in 2008. The substantial majority of vehicles used in our rental car business are purchased through our principal U.S. vehicle financing program, which is an asset-backed facility. Vehicle disposition. We generally hold a vehicle in our domestic fleet for a term of four to fourteen months. For 2007 and 2006, approximately 75% and 88%, respectively, of the rental cars purchased for our domestic car fleet were subject to agreements requiring automobile manufacturers to repurchase them or guarantee our rate of depreciation during a specified period of time. Cars subject to these agreements are sometimes referred to as “program vehicles” or “program cars” and cars not subject to these agreements are sometimes referred to as “risk cars” or “risk vehicles”. The programs in which we participate currently require that the program vehicles be maintained in our fleet for a minimum number of months (typically four to twelve months) and impose return conditions, including those related to mileage and condition. At the time of return to the manufacturer, we receive the price guaranteed at the time of purchase and are thus protected from fluctuations in the prices of previously-owned vehicles in the wholesale market at the time of disposition. The future percentages of program vehicles in our fleet will be dependent on the availability and attractiveness of manufacturers’ repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, and we expect percentages for 2008 to be lower than 2007 as we acquire more risk vehicles in order to mitigate the anticipated increased cost of program vehicles. We dispose of our risk vehicles largely through automobile auctions, including auctions that enable dealers to purchase vehicles online more quickly than traditional auctions. Of the approximately 407,000 cars from our rental car fleet that we sold in 2007 (compared to 445,000 that we sold in 2006), we sold approximately 88% back to the manufacturers pursuant to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs and the rest through third party channels such as wholesale auctions. In 2008, we expect the percentage of cars sold back to the manufacturers to decrease as we acquire more risk vehicles. Utilization and seasonality. Our car rental business is subject to seasonal variations in customer demand, with the summer vacation period representing the peak season. The general seasonal variation in demand, along with more localized changes in demand at each of our locations, causes us to vary our fleet size over the course of the year. For 2007, our average monthly fleet size in the U.S. ranged from a low of approximately 300,000 vehicles in December to a high of approximately 388,000 vehicles in July. Our average fleet size increased 4.2% in 2007, to 340,899 vehicles. Domestic fleet utilization for 2007, which is based on the number of rental days (or portion thereof) that vehicles are rented compared to the total amount of time that vehicles are available for rent, ranged from 68% in December to 79% in August and averaged 75% for 2007. Our calculation of utilization may not be comparable to other companies’ calculation of similarly titled statistics. Maintenance. We place a strong emphasis on vehicle maintenance since quick and proper repairs are critical to fleet utilization. To accomplish this task we employ a fully-certified National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (“ASE”) technician instructor at our headquarters. This instructor has developed a specialized training 11 Table of Contents program for our 418 technicians who operate in approximately 100 maintenance and damage repair centers for both Avis and Budget. We use advanced diagnostic equipment, including General Motors’ “Techline” and “Tech 2” diagnostic computers and Ford’s PDS diagnostic system. Our technician training department also prepares its own technical service bulletins that can be retrieved electronically at all of our repair locations. Approximately 89% of our technicians are ASE-certified. Customer service Our commitment to delivering a consistently high level of customer service is a critical element of our success and strategy. Each year, our internal quality auditors conduct approximately 1,000 unannounced reviews of locations to measure service levels by location. We identify specific areas of achievement and opportunity from these assessments. We address areas of improvement on a system-wide level and develop standard methods and measures. The major focus areas of these assessments include (i) vehicle condition and availability; (ii) customer interaction, including helpfulness and courtesy; and (iii) location image. In addition, we utilize a toll-free “800” number and a dedicated customer service e-mail address to allow customers of both Avis and Budget to report problems directly to our customer relations department. Location associates and managers also receive training and are empowered to resolve virtually all customer issues at the location level. We prepare weekly and monthly reports on the types and number of complaints received for use in conjunction with the customer satisfaction reports by location management as feedback of customer service delivery. Finally, we conduct daily location-specific customer satisfaction tracking by sending web-based surveys to recent customers of our top volume locations. Airport concession fees In general, concession fees for on-airport locations are based on a percentage of total commissionable revenue (as defined by each airport authority), subject to minimum annual guaranteed amounts. Concessions are typically awarded by airport authorities every three to five years based upon competitive bids. Our concession agreements with the various airport authorities generally impose certain minimum operating requirements, provide for relocation in the event of future construction and provide for abatement of the minimum annual guarantee in the event of extended low passenger volume. Competition The car rental industry is characterized by intense price and service competition. Competition in the U.S. vehicle rental operations business is based primarily upon price, reliability, vehicle availability, national distribution, usability of booking systems, ease of rental and return and other elements of customer service. In addition, competition is influenced strongly by advertising, marketing and brand reputation. We compete primarily with the following car rental companies: Hertz Global Holdings, Inc., Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, and Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company, which also operates the National Car Rental and Alamo brands. 2007 Acquisitions On October 23, 2007 we acquired a minority interest in Carey Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Carey International, Inc., a worldwide provider of chauffeured ground transportation services. In connection with this transaction, we invested approximately $60 million in cash and acquired approximately 48% percent of Carey’s common stock. We also acquired a one-year option to increase our ownership stake to 80% of Carey’s common stock, subject to certain conditions, which would likely include the assumption or repayment of Carey’s existing indebtedness. If we exercise of our option, we expect to expand revenue by offering our customers a full range of ground transportation products. In 2007, we also purchased the car and truck rental operating rights and/or assets from approximately 13 of our former Avis and Budget domestic franchisees for approximately $10 million in cash. Such acquisitions were not significant individually or in the aggregate to our business. 12 Table of Contents Truck rental business Operations Budget’s truck rental business is one of the largest local and one-way truck rental businesses in the United States. The Budget truck rental business has a combined fleet of approximately 28,000 trucks, with a median truck age of less than three years, which are rented through a network of approximately 2,500 dealers, 230 company-operated and 85 franchisee-operated locations throughout the continental United States. The Budget truck rental business serves both the consumer and light commercial sectors. The consumer sector consists primarily of individuals who rent trucks to move household goods on either a one-way or local basis. The light commercial sector consists of a wide range of businesses that rent light- to medium-duty trucks, which we define as trucks having a gross vehicle weight of less than 26,000 pounds, for a variety of commercial applications. In 2007, the Budget truck rental business generated total revenue of approximately $416 million. We primarily advertise in “yellow pages” telephone directories to promote our truck rental business to potential customers. Budget truck rental customers can make reservations through the Budget truck rental reservation center toll-free at 1-800-GO-BUDGET, through our Budget truck rental website at budgettruck.com or by calling a location directly. In addition, we have established online affiliations with websites like moving.com to reach our targeted audience. Budget truck rental reservations may also be made through the budget.com website. In 2007, we completed the integration of our Denver-based corporate truck operations into our Parsippany headquarters and existing car-rental facilities, eliminated certain positions and significantly reduced separate senior management for our truck rental operations. Distribution Budget’s truck rental business is offered through a national network, which included approximately 2,500 dealers as of December 31, 2007. These independently owned dealers primarily operate self-storage facilities, rental centers, hardware stores, service stations and other similar retail service businesses. In addition to the dealers’ principal businesses, the dealers rent our light- and medium-duty trucks to consumers and to our commercial accounts and are responsible for collecting payments on our behalf. The dealers receive a commission on all truck rentals and ancillary equipment rentals. Generally, dealership agreements may be terminated by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ prior written notice. Strategic Partnerships and Agreements In September 2007, Budget entered into a co-branding agreement with Public Storage, the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities worldwide, as an exclusive third-party provider of rental trucks to Public Storage customers. As part of this agreement, approximately 200 Public Storage locations in the U.S. will offer on-site Budget truck rentals, and the parties will engage in cross-promotional efforts, including co-branding of websites and “yellow pages” advertising. Budget has also entered into a strategic partnership with Sears, Roebuck & Co., whereby Budget will have the opportunity to open Budget truck rental locations at certain Sears appliance outlet stores nationwide. In September 2007, Budget was accepted as an “approved vendor” of truck rental services by the U.S. Government Services Administration (“GSA”). The GSA agreement allows Budget to bid and/or receive contracts from any federal agency for temporary fleet replacement, special events, natural disasters and other general use. Competition The truck rental industry is characterized by intense price and service competition. We compete with a large number of truck rental companies throughout the country, including U-Haul International, Inc., Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, Ryder System, Inc., Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company and many others. 13 Table of Contents Seasonality Our truck rental operations are subject to seasonal demand patterns, with generally higher levels of demand occurring during the late spring and summer months when most self moves occur, with the third quarter typically being our busiest quarter. Generally, December is also a strong month due to increased retail sales activity and package deliveries. Ancillary products and insurance coverages We supplement our daily truck rental revenue by offering customers a range of ancillary optional products. We rent automobile towing equipment and other moving accessories such as hand trucks, furniture pads and moving supplies, as well as Where2 GPS navigation units. We also make available to customers a range of optional liability-limiting products and coverages such as physical damage waivers, automobile towing protection, personal accident and cargo insurance, and supplemental liability insurance. These ancillary products enhance our appeal to consumers by offering customers “one-stop” moving services. Insurance We generally assume the risk of liability to third parties arising from vehicle rental services in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, for up to $1 million per occurrence, through a combination of self-insurance, insurance coverage provided by one of our domestic subsidiaries and insurance coverage secured from one or more unaffiliated domestic insurance carriers. We retain the exposure for up to $9 million per occurrence, in excess of the previously described $1 million level, through an unaffiliated fronting carrier who is reinsured by our offshore captive insurance company, Constellation Reinsurance Co., Ltd. We also purchase additional excess insurance coverage from a combination of unaffiliated excess carriers. We insure the risk of liability to third parties in Argentina, Australia and New Zealand through a combination of unaffiliated carriers and our affiliates. These carriers provide coverage supplemental to minimum local requirements. Trademarks and intellectual property The service marks “Avis” and “Budget”, related marks incorporating the words “Avis” or “Budget”, and related logos and marks such as “We try harder” are material to our vehicle rental business. Our subsidiaries, licensees and franchisees actively use these marks. All of the material marks used by the Avis and Budget Systems are registered (or have applications pending for registration) with the United States Patent and Trademark Office as well as all countries worldwide where Avis and Budget have operations. Our subsidiaries own the marks, patents and other intellectual property, including the Wizard System, used in our business. FINANCIAL DATA OF SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS Financial data for our segments and geographic areas are reported in Note 23—Segment Information to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. REGULATION We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to taxing and licensing of vehicles, franchising, consumer credit, consumer protection, environmental protection, insurance, privacy and labor matters. Environmental The principal environmental regulatory requirements applicable to our vehicle rental operations relate to the ownership or use of tanks for the storage of petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and waste oils; the 14 Table of Contents treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of solid or liquid wastes. We operate approximately 440 Avis and Budget locations at which petroleum products are stored in underground or above ground tanks. We have instituted an environmental compliance program designed to ensure that these tanks are in compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements, including the replacement and upgrade of underground tanks to comply with the December 1998 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency upgrade mandate and periodic testing and leak monitoring of underground storage tanks. We believe that the locations where we currently operate are in compliance, in all material respects, with such regulatory requirements. We may also be subject to requirements related to the remediation of, or the liability for remediation of, substances that have been released into the environment at properties owned or operated by us or at properties to which we send substances for treatment or disposal. Such remediation requirements may be imposed without regard to fault and liability for environmental remediation can be substantial. We may be eligible for reimbursement or payment of remediation costs associated with future releases from regulated underground storage tanks and have established funds to assist in the payment of remediation costs for releases from certain registered underground tanks. Subject to certain deductibles, the availability of funds, compliance status of the tanks and the nature of the release, these tank funds may be available to us for use in remediating future releases from our tank systems. Loss damage waivers A traditional revenue source for the vehicle rental industry has been the sale of loss damage waivers, by which rental companies agree to relieve a customer from financial responsibility arising from vehicle damage incurred during the rental period if there has been no breach of the rental agreement. Approximately 4% of our revenue during 2007 was generated by the sale of loss damage waivers. To date, 24 states have enacted legislation which requires disclosure to each customer at the time of rental that damage to the rented vehicle may be covered by the customer’s personal automobile insurance and that loss damage waivers may not be necessary. In addition, New York permits the sale of loss damage waivers at a capped rate per day based on the vehicle manufacturer’s suggested retail price. Illinois, Nevada and California have similar statutes, which establish the daily rate that can be charged for loss damage waivers. Insurance As a result of our reinsurance of the optional insurance coverages that we offer through unaffiliated third party insurance companies as well as other insurance obligations, we are subject to regulation under the insurance statutes, including insurance holding company statutes, of the jurisdictions in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled. These regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require insurance holding companies and insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies to register and file certain reports, including information concerning their capital structure, ownership, financial condition and general business operations with the regulatory authority of the applicable jurisdiction, and require prior regulatory agency approval of changes in control of an insurer and intra-corporate transfers of assets within the holding company structure. Such insurance statutes may also require that we obtain limited licenses to sell optional insurance coverage to our customers at the time of rental. Franchise regulation The sale of franchises is regulated by various state laws, as well as by the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”). The FTC requires that franchisors make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states require registration or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of 15 Table of Contents these agreements. Although our franchising operations have not been materially adversely affected by such existing regulations, we cannot predict the effect of any future federal, state or local legislation or regulation. Privacy Laws in some countries and jurisdictions limit the types of information we may collect about individuals with whom we deal or propose to deal, as well as how we collect, retain and use the information that we are permitted to collect, some of which is non-public personally identifiable information. The centralized nature of our information systems requires the routine flow of information about customers and potential customers across national borders, particularly into the United States. If this flow of information were to become illegal, or subject to onerous restrictions, our ability to serve our customers could be seriously impaired for an extended period of time. In addition, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the actions of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenue, increased costs and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 30,000 employees, of which approximately 10,800 people were employed on a part-time basis. Approximately 27% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. We have never experienced a large-scale work stoppage. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our business The high level of competition in the vehicle rental industry may lead to reduced rental volumes, downward pricing or an inability to increase our prices, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The vehicle rental industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We believe that price is one of the primary competitive factors in the vehicle rental industry. Our competitors, some of whom may have access to substantial capital, may seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing. To the extent that we match competitors’ downward pricing, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent that we do not match or remain within a reasonable competitive margin of our competitors’ pricing, it could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may lose rental volume. The Internet has increased pricing transparency among vehicle rental companies by enabling cost-conscious customers to more easily obtain and compare the rates available from various vehicle rental companies for any given rental. This transparency may increase the prevalence and intensity of price competition in the future. We face risks of increased fleet costs, both generally and the possibility that manufacturers could change or cease their repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs. Fleet costs represented approximately 29% of our aggregate expenses for 2007 and can vary from year to year based on the prices at which we are able to purchase and dispose of rental vehicles. For 2007 and 2006, approximately 75% and 88%, respectively, of the rental cars purchased for our domestic car fleet were the subject of agreements requiring automobile manufacturers to repurchase them or guarantee the depreciation rate for a specified period of time. We refer to cars subject to such agreements as “program cars.” Under these repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, automobile manufacturers agree to repurchase cars at a specified price during a specified time period or guarantee the rate of depreciation for a specified period of time, typically subject to certain car condition and mileage requirements. Repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, therefore, enable us to determine, in advance, our depreciation expense, which is a significant cost factor in our car rental operations. Repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs also limit the risk to us that the market value of a car, at the time of its disposition, will be less than its estimated residual (or depreciated) value. Automobile manufacturers may not continue to sell cars to us subject to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs at all or on terms consistent with past practice. The overall cost of cars subject to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs could also increase if the manufacturers were to make changes to these programs, particularly if such changes were to result in a decrease in the repurchase price or guaranteed depreciation without a corresponding decrease to the original purchase price. Repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs also generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the size of our fleet rapidly in response to an economic downturn or changes in demand by returning cars sooner than originally expected. This flexibility may be reduced in the future to the extent the percentage of program cars in our car rental fleet decreases or this feature of repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs is altered. 17 Table of Contents We face risks due to a possible decline in the financial condition of automobile manufacturers. During 2007, approximately 69% of the cars acquired for our U.S. car rental fleet were manufactured by either General Motors Corporation or Ford Motor Company. A default on any repurchase or guaranteed depreciation agreement, particularly with respect to GM or Ford, might leave us with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer with respect to program cars that were either (i) sold for an amount less than the amount guaranteed under the applicable agreement or (ii) sold and returned to the car manufacturer but for which we were not paid, as well as potential additional expenses if the prices at which we were able to dispose of program cars were less than the specified prices under the repurchase or guaranteed depreciation program. Any increased risk with respect to the likelihood of these defaults or a decline in the results of operations or financial condition of the manufacturers of the cars we purchase could also impact our ability to finance the purchase of cars to maintain our car rental fleet. We face risks of increased fleet costs as a result of the increase in our number of “risk” vehicles. We have no control over the terms of manufacturers’ repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, and we anticipate that the cost of program vehicles will increase in 2008. We intend to reduce the number of program cars we purchase in 2008 as we acquire more vehicles not covered by repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs (“risk vehicles”) in order to mitigate such increased costs. We currently sell risk vehicles through auctions, third party resellers and other channels, which channels may not produce stable used vehicle pricing in the future. The costs of our risk vehicles may be materially impacted by the relative strength of the used vehicle marketplace, particularly the marketplace for roughly one-year-old used cars. A decline in the prices at which we sell risk vehicles could have an adverse impact on our fleet holding costs and profitability. Our car rental business is dependent on airline passenger traffic, and disruptions in travel patterns could harm our business. In 2007, we generated approximately 81% of our domestic car rental revenue from our corporate-owned on-airport locations. As a result, a decline in airline passenger traffic could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Events that affect air travel could include economic downturns, work stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents or threats, pandemic diseases, natural disasters or the response of governments to any of these events. We also face increased costs of maintaining our positions on-airport through increased competitive bidding and minimum airport guarantees. A decline in general economic conditions, including a decline in the residential housing market, could result in a decline in business and leisure travel, and a decline in truck rentals, which could harm our business. Our results of operations are affected by downturns in economic activity in the United States and abroad. An economic downturn could result in a decline in both business and leisure travel and cause a decline in the volume of car rental transactions, and a decline in home sales may result in a decline in truck rental transactions, both of which could have an adverse impact on our business. In the case of a decline in car rental or truck rental activity, we may reduce rental rates to meet competitive pressures, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A general decline in economic conditions also may have an adverse impact on residual values realized on the disposition of our risk vehicles in the wholesale market. We are dependent on third party distribution channels, and the success of our business depends in significant part on these relationships. The operators of third party distribution channels, through which we generate approximately 45% of our domestic reservations, generally can cancel or modify their agreements with us upon relatively short notice. Changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules or arrangements with third party distribution channels, the termination of any of our relationships or a reduction in the transaction volume of such channels could have 18 Table of Contents an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of these reservations are made in connection with global distribution systems or GDS (Amadeus, Galileo, Sabre and Worldspan), which aggregate reservations from various sources. Our largest third party source of reservations (other than from GDS) in 2007 was responsible for less than 3% of our domestic reservations. Our business is seasonal, and a disruption in rental activity during our peak season could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In our business, the third quarter of the year has historically been our strongest quarter due to the increased level of leisure travel and household moving activity. In 2007, the third quarter accounted for approximately 28% of our vehicle rental revenue and more than 39% of EBITDA for each of our Domestic Car Rental, International Car Rental and Truck Rental segments. Any occurrence that disrupts rental activity during the third quarter could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our liquidity and/or our results of operations. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant amount of our borrowings, primarily our vehicle-backed borrowings, bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our net income could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, our total outstanding debt of approximately $7.4 billion included interest rate sensitive debt of approximately $500 million (either by its original terms or through the use of interest rate derivatives), which had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6% per annum. During our seasonal borrowing peak in 2007, outstanding interest rate sensitive debt totaled approximately $1.9 billion, with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6% per annum. Our derivative instruments may impact our results of operations. We utilize derivative instruments to manage a portion of our risk related to interest rate fluctuations. The derivative instruments we use are typically in the form of interest rate swaps. Periodically, we are required to determine the change in fair value, called the “mark to market,” of these derivative instruments, which can result in a non-cash charge or gain being recognized in our financial results for a period preceding the period or periods in which settlement occurs under the derivative instruments and interest payments are made. Changes or shifts in interest rates can significantly impact the valuation of our derivatives and therefore could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses or gains if interest rates fluctuate materially from the time when the derivatives were entered into. Accordingly, a fluctuation in interest rates may impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies and growth initiatives. We plan to increase revenues from sources beyond time and mileage rental fees generated by our on-airport locations. In addition to expanding revenue generated by additional products and services offered to our on- and off-airport customers, we plan to expand our presence in the domestic off-airport segment of the car rental market and expand our insurance replacement and local sales at new and existing off-airport locations through a dedicated local sales team. Our ability to generate significant revenue at new or existing off-airport locations may depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully market to off-airport renters, including local customers needing cars while their vehicles are temporarily unavailable due to repairs or other reasons, and our ability to acquire and maintain our status as an approved car rental company by insurance companies. As a result, revenues generated at off-airport locations may not increase substantially in the short-term. We also anticipate generating sustainable cost savings through implementation of our Performance Excellence process improvement initiative and other efforts. If we are unable to successfully implement these strategies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents The exercise of our option to purchase a majority interest in Carey Holdings, Inc., or future acquisitions of existing Avis or Budget franchisees or other businesses, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We have an option to purchase additional interests which would increase our total ownership to approximately 80% of the common stock of Carey Holdings, Inc., which option expires October 23, 2008. Our decision to exercise this option may involve numerous risks, including those associated with integrating Carey’s operations, technology and personnel into our business, potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, and exposure to existing as well as unknown liabilities, including litigation involving Carey. Exercise of the option is subject to certain conditions, which would likely include assumption or repayment of Carey’s existing debt facility. Our acquisition of Carey may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our balance sheet or results of operations. In the future, we may also decide to acquire or invest in other businesses (including the acquisition of existing franchisees), some of which may be significant, and which acquisitions or investments may involve the same or similar risks. We face risks arising from our heavy reliance on communications networks and centralized information systems. We rely heavily on information systems, including our reservation system, to accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our fleet of vehicles, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. We have centralized our information systems, and we rely on communications service providers to link our systems with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet, slow rental and sales processes, and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our systems’ business continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, not eliminate it. In addition, because our systems contain personally identifiable non-public information about millions of individuals and businesses, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the actions of others, could harm our reputation, give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenue and increased costs or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. We face risks related to liability and insurance. Our businesses expose us to claims for personal injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles and for workers’ compensation claims and other employment-related claims by our employees. We may become exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels resulting from unusually high losses or otherwise. In addition, liabilities in respect of existing or future claims may exceed the level of our reserves and/or our insurance, and we may not have sufficient capital available to pay any uninsured claims. Furthermore, insurance with unaffiliated carriers may not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. Environmental regulations could subject us to liability for fines or damages. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including, among other things, with respect to the ownership and operation of tanks for the storage of petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils. We have established a compliance program for our tank systems that is intended to ensure that the tanks are properly registered with the state or other jurisdiction in which the tanks are located and have been either replaced or upgraded to meet applicable leak detection and spill, overfill, corrosion protection and vapor recovery requirements. These tank systems may not at all times remain free from undetected leaks, and the use of these tanks may result in significant spills. 20 Table of Contents We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the cleanup of contamination at our owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Our compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations may, however, require material expenditures by us or otherwise have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in the U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory environment that affect our operations, including laws and regulations relating to the insurance products we sell, consumer privacy, data security, automobile-related liability and insurance rates, could disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and the other countries and jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices or our profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Optional insurance products, including, but not limited to, supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, we offer to renters providing various insurance coverages in our domestic vehicle rental operations are regulated under state laws governing the licensing of such products. In our international car rental operations, our offering of optional products providing insurance coverages historically has not been regulated. Any changes in U.S. or foreign law that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue. If customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products through us as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In almost every state, we recover various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles. In addition, where permitted, we also recover certain costs, including concession costs imposed by an airport authority or the owner and/or operator of the premises from which our vehicle is rented. Our long-standing business practice has been to separately state the existence of these additional costs in our rental agreements and invoices, and disclose to consumers additional surcharges used to recover such costs together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. This standard practice comports with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. We may in the future be subject to potential legislative changes or administrative action which could limit, restrict or prohibit our ability to separately state, charge and recover such costs, which would result in a cost reallocation. If any such changes were to be enacted there may be an adverse impact or limitation on our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge, which could adversely impact our profitability and results of operations. We may be held responsible by third parties, regulators or courts for the actions of, or failures to act by, our licensees, dealers or independent operators, which exposes us to possible fines, other liabilities and bad publicity. Our car and truck rental franchisee and dealer locations are independently owned and operated. We also operate many of our corporate locations through agreements with “agency operators,” which are third party independent contractors who receive commissions to operate such locations. Our agreements with our franchisees, dealers and agency operators require that they comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, including our internal policies and standards. Under these agreements, our franchisees, dealers and agency operators retain control over the employment and management of all personnel. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions of, or failures to act by, our franchisees, dealers or agency operators. Although 21 Table of Contents we maintain the right to monitor the operations of these franchisees, dealers and agency operators, and under certain circumstances have the ability to terminate their agreements for failure to adhere to contracted operational standards, we are unlikely to detect all problems. Moreover, there are occasions when the actions and activities of our franchisees, dealers or agency operators may not be clearly distinguishable from our own. It is our policy to vigorously seek to be dismissed from any such claims and to pursue indemnity for any adverse decisions. Failure of our franchisees, dealers or agency operators to comply with laws and regulations may expose us to liability, damages and publicity that may adversely affect our business. Significant or sustained increases in fuel costs or limitations in fuel supplies could harm our business. We could be adversely affected by limitations in fuel supplies or significant or sustained increases in fuel prices. A severe or protracted disruption in fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, either by directly discouraging consumers from renting cars and trucks or by causing a decline in airline passenger traffic. Our business requires substantial capital, and a disruption in our ability to obtain financing for our operations, whether or not beyond our control, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and financial condition. We rely on asset-backed financing for our operations, particularly with respect to our vehicle fleet, which we fund largely through the asset-backed securities and lending market. There has been significant turbulence, reduced liquidity and a significant increase in borrowing spreads in the asset-backed debt markets since third quarter 2007. We may be unable to obtain financing for our operations or refinance our existing financing on similar terms, as a result of negative credit events specific to us, the current asset-backed market environment or a further deterioration in the markets for asset-backed securities, such as: • a deterioration in the terms, availability and credit market acceptance of the financial guarantee insurance policies that insure our asset-backed indebtedness at the time of the incurrence of additional, or refinancing of existing, asset-backed indebtedness; • rating agencies that provide credit ratings for our asset-backed indebtedness, financial guarantee insurers that insure our asset-backed indebtedness or other third parties requiring changes in the terms and structure of our asset-backed financings, including increased credit enhancement (i) in connection with the incurrence of additional or refinancing of existing asset-backed debt, (ii) upon the occurrence of external events, such as changes in general economic and market conditions or further deterioration in the credit ratings of our principal car manufacturers, including Ford and General Motors, or (iii) any other reasons; • the occurrence of certain events, including but not limited to, an insolvency of, or a payment default by, a financial guarantee insurer of our asset-backed indebtedness, that, under the agreements governing our asset-backed indebtedness, could result, among other things, in (i) an amortization event pursuant to which payments of principal and interest on the affected series of asset-backed notes may be accelerated, or (ii) a liquidation event of default pursuant to which the trustee or holders of asset-backed notes would be permitted to require the sale of fleet vehicles or equipment that collateralizes the asset-backed financing; or • a deterioration in the acceptance by credit markets of the structures and structural risks associated with asset-backed financing programs such as ours, particularly in light of recent developments in the markets for mortgage-backed securities. Any disruption in our ability to obtain asset-backed financing for our operations, or maintain our current funding capacity, financing costs and interest rates, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents The terms of ABCR’s senior credit facility and our senior unsecured notes permit us to finance or refinance new car acquisitions through other means, including secured financing that is not limited to the assets of special purpose entity subsidiaries. We may seek in the future to finance or refinance new car acquisitions through such other means. No assurances can be given, however, as to whether such financing will be available, or as to whether the terms of such financing will be comparable to the terms of the senior credit facility or senior unsecured notes. Risks related to our indebtedness We have a substantial amount of debt which could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was approximately $7.4 billion and ABCR had approximately $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under ABCR’s senior secured credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other purposes; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulation and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions; and • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of increases in interest rates. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes limits, but does not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2007, ABCR’s senior secured credit facility provided us commitments for additional borrowings of up to $1.2 billion, in the aggregate. All of those borrowings would be secured and the lenders under ABCR’s senior secured credit facility would have a prior claim to the assets that secure such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above in the previous risk factor could intensify. Restrictive covenants in agreements and instruments governing our debt may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The indenture governing our senior unsecured notes and the agreement governing ABCR’s senior secured credit facility contain, and our future debt instruments may contain, various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; 23 Table of Contents • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • incur liens; • make distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. We require a significant amount of cash to service all of our indebtedness and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, and our cash needs may increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. Risks related to the Cendant Separation We have limited operating history as a stand-alone vehicle rental company. The financial information included in this annual report on Form 10-K does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone vehicle rental company during 2005 or 2006. Prior to the completion of the Cendant Separation, the vehicle rental business was operated by Cendant as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Cendant or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for our vehicle rental business, including, but not limited to, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting. Our financial results for all periods other than fourth quarter 2006 and full year 2007 for our operating segments reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Cendant for these and similar functions. These allocations may be more or less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a stand-alone vehicle rental company during those periods. We are relying on Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport to fulfill their obligations under the Separation Agreement and other agreements. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide are responsible for 62.5% and 37.5%, respectively of certain contingent and other of our corporate liabilities including those relating to unresolved tax and legal matters (the “Assumed Obligations”). More specifically, Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide have generally assumed and are responsible for the payment of their allocated percentage of (i) all taxes imposed on us and certain of our subsidiaries and (ii) certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities and/or our subsidiaries to the extent incurred prior to August 23, 2006. These contingent and other corporate liabilities include liabilities relating to (i) Cendant’s terminated or divested businesses, including among others, the former PHH and Marketing Services (Affinion) businesses, (ii) liabilities relating to the sale of Travelport, (iii) the Securities Action and related litigation (for a further description of these litigation matters, see “Legal Proceedings”) and (iv) generally any actions with respect to the Cendant Separation or the distributions brought 24 Table of Contents by any third party. If either Realogy or Wyndham were to default in its payment, when due, of any such Assumed Obligations, each non-defaulting party, including us, would be required to pay an equal portion of the amounts in default. On April 10, 2007, Realogy was acquired by an affiliate of Apollo Management VI, L.P. and is no longer listed as an independent public company. The acquisition does not affect Relaogy’s obligation to satisfy 62.5% of the Assumed Obligations. However, as a result of the acquisition, Realogy has greater debt obligations and its ability to satisfy its portion of such Assumed Obligations may be adversely impacted. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Realogy posted a letter of credit in April 2007 for the benefit of the Company to cover its estimated share of the Assumed Obligations, which is subject to adjustment from time to time, although there can be no assurance that such letter of credit will be sufficient or effective to cover Realogy’s actual obligations if and when they arise. In addition, the Separation Agreement effectively provides Realogy with the right to control the process for resolving disputes related to many of the Assumed Obligations. Moreover, the Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities designed to place financial responsibility of certain liabilities and other obligations with the proper company. For example, Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and/or Travelport are required to indemnify us in respect of certain effective guarantees that result from either us or one of our subsidiaries remaining a named lessee on real estate leases pertaining to properties occupied by Realogy, Wyndham and/or Travelport. Any failure by Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide or Travelport to pay any of their assumed liabilities when due or to indemnify us when required may adversely impact our results of operations. Risks related to our common stock The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Your percentage ownership may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we granted to our directors, officers and employees and the accelerated vesting of other equity awards. As disclosed in the notes to 25 Table of Contents our financial statements included herein, in 2007, we granted approximately 1.1 million restricted stock units. We also expect to grant restricted stock units and/or other types of equity awards in the future. Our stockholder rights plan and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; • the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In 2006, prior to the Cendant Separation, our Board adopted a stockholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”) which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred stock. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (i) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board of Directors before the rights are separated from our common stock) after the public announcement that a person or group has become an “acquiring person” by acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board before the rights are separated from our common stock) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer that, if completed, would result in that person or group becoming an acquiring person. The issuance of preferred stock pursuant to the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existing Rights Plan will expire in accordance with its current terms unless stockholders approve its continuation at our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 