ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a cautionary discussion of the most significant risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the factors described in this item could, individually or in the aggregate, cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. Should unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business The high level of competition in the vehicle rental industry may lead to reduced rental volumes and increased pricing pressure, which could adversely impact our results of operations. The vehicle rental industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We believe that price is one of the primary competitive factors in the vehicle rental industry. Our competitors may seek to compete aggressively on the basis 16 Table of Contents of pricing. We risk losing rental volume to the extent that our competitors reduce their pricing and we do not match or remain within a reasonably competitive margin of our competitors’ pricing, or if price increases we seek to implement make us less competitive. We could be further impacted if we are unable to adjust the size of our rental fleet in response to fluctuations in demand. The risk of competition on the basis of pricing in the truck rental industry can be even more intense than in the car rental industry because it can be more difficult to reduce the size of our truck rental fleet in response to reduced demand. The Internet has increased pricing transparency among vehicle rental companies by enabling cost-conscious customers to more easily obtain and compare the rates available from various vehicle rental companies for any given rental. This transparency may increase the prevalence and intensity of price competition in the future. We face risks of increased fleet costs, both generally and due to the possibility that manufacturers could change or cease their repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs. Fleet costs, which represent our single largest expense, represented approximately 22% of our aggregate operating expenses for 2012 and can vary from year to year based on the prices at which we are able to purchase and dispose of rental vehicles. In 2012, on average approximately 46% of our rental car fleet was comprised of vehicles subject to agreements requiring automobile manufacturers to repurchase them or guarantee the depreciation rate for a specified period of time, or vehicles subject to operating leases. We refer to such agreements as “programs” and to cars subject to such agreements as “program cars.” Under these programs, automobile manufacturers agree to repurchase cars at a specified price during a specified time period or guarantee the rate of depreciation for a specified period of time, typically subject to certain car condition and mileage requirements. These programs therefore enable us to determine, in advance, our depreciation expense, which is a significant component of our fleet costs. These programs also limit the risk to us that the market value of a car, at the time of its disposition, will be less than its estimated residual (or depreciated) value; however, as discussed below, such programs result in additional exposure to the manufacturers with whom we have such agreements. Automobile manufacturers may not continue to sell program cars to us at all or on terms consistent with past practice. The overall cost of program cars could also increase if the manufacturers were to make changes to such programs, particularly if such changes were to result in an adverse impact in the repurchase price or guaranteed depreciation without a corresponding decrease to the original purchase price. Programs also generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the size of our fleet rapidly in response to seasonal demand fluctuations, an economic slowdown or other changes in demand by disposing of cars sooner than originally expected. This flexibility may be reduced in the future to the extent that we reduce the percentage of program cars in our car rental fleet or features of the programs are altered. We receive payments from manufacturers, known as “incentive payments,” once certain contractual conditions are met, such as reaching certain purchase volumes. Our per-unit fleet costs could increase if we should decide to purchase fewer vehicles than previously agreed, or if we do not meet volume requirements or if incentive payments are reduced or eliminated by manufacturers. Any increase in our per-unit fleet costs could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to the financial condition of automobile manufacturers and the used vehicle marketplace. Approximately 21%, 18% and 12% of the cars we acquired for our fleet in 2012 were manufactured by Ford, General Motors and Chrysler, respectively. A majority of these cars and a portion of cars purchased from other manufacturers for our fleet are program cars. If a manufacturer were to default under its agreements with us as a result of bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise, we could incur material expenses if the prices at which we were 17 Table of Contents able to dispose of program cars were less than the specified prices under the applicable program. This effect could be magnified because we typically pay manufacturers more for a program car than we would pay for the same car as a non-program vehicle, which we refer to as a “risk vehicle,” and because we depreciate a program car to the repurchase price or the guaranteed depreciation agreed to by the manufacturer. This agreed price does not vary with conditions in the marketplace and is usually higher than the price that would be available in the used car marketplace. We also receive incentive payments from manufacturers following the purchase of some of our vehicles once certain conditions are met, such as reaching certain purchase volumes. Failure by a manufacturer to fulfill its obligations under any program agreement or incentive payment obligation could leave us with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer, particularly with respect to program cars that were either (i) resold for an amount less than the amount guaranteed under the applicable program and therefore subject to a “true-up” payment obligation from the manufacturer or (ii) returned to the manufacturer but for which we were not yet paid, and therefore we could incur a substantial loss as a result of such failure to perform. We currently sell non-program vehicles through auctions, third-party resellers and other channels in the used vehicle marketplace. Such channels may not produce stable used vehicle prices. A reduction in residual values for non-program cars and trucks in our vehicle rental fleet could cause us to sustain a substantial loss on the ultimate sale of such vehicles or require us to depreciate those vehicles at a more accelerated rate while we own them. Any reduction in the market value of the vehicles in our fleet could effectively increase our fleet costs, adversely impact our profitability and potentially lead to decreased capacity in our asset-backed car rental funding facilities due to the collateral requirements for such facilities which effectively increase as market values for vehicles decrease. In addition, if our ability to sell vehicles in the used vehicle marketplace were to become severely limited at a time when required collateral levels were rising, principal under our asset-backed financing facilities may be required to be repaid sooner than anticipated with vehicle disposition proceeds and lease payments we make to our vehicle program subsidiaries. If that were to occur, the holders of our asset-backed debt may have the ability to exercise their right to instruct the trustee to direct the return of program vehicles and/or the sale of non-program vehicles to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such debt. We face risks associated with sourcing vehicles for our fleet and potential safety recalls affecting vehicles in our fleet. We currently source our fleet from a wide range of auto manufacturers, including General Motors, Ford, Chrysler, Audi, BMW, Fiat, Hyundai, Kia, Nissan, Peugeot, Renault, Toyota and Volkswagen. To the extent these or other auto manufacturers significantly curtail production, or decide to curtail sales to us or the vehicle rental industry as a whole, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of vehicles to operate our business without significantly increasing our fleet costs. In addition, our vehicles may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers that could have a similar negative impact on our business when we remove such recalled vehicles from our rentable fleet. If a large number of cars were to be the subject of simultaneous recalls, or if needed replacement parts were not in adequate supply, we may not be able to re-rent recalled cars for a significant period of time. We could also face liability claims related to vehicles subject to a safety recall. Depending on the nature and severity of the recall, it could adversely affect our revenues, create customer service problems, reduce the residual value of the cars involved, harm our general reputation and/or have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may engage in acquisitions, including the acquisition of existing Avis or Budget licensees, or investments in other related businesses and we may not be able to effectively integrate or realize anticipated benefits of these transactions or the anticipated benefits could take longer to realize than expected, which could negatively impact our results of operations. From time to time we engage in strategic transactions, including the acquisition of or investment in existing licensees and/or other related businesses. The risks involved in engaging in these strategic transactions include the possible failure to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses, or to realize the expected benefits of 18 Table of Contents such transactions such as earnings and cash flows, cost savings, synergies or sales or growth opportunities that we anticipate from the transaction. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. In addition, the integration may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities or competitive responses. Potential challenges associated with integrating acquired business operations include: • inconsistencies between our standards, procedures and policies and those of the acquired business; • the increased scope and complexity of our operations could require significant attention from management and could impose constraints on our operations or other projects; • unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions may be imposed upon the acquired company, including due to required regulatory or other third-party approvals or consents; • the costs of compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including the possible acquisition or assumption of unexpected liabilities, litigation, penalties or other enforcement actions; • provisions in our and the acquired business’s contracts with third parties that could limit our flexibility to take certain actions or our ability to retain customers; • higher than expected costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations; • higher than expected investments may be required to implement necessary compliance processes and related systems, including accounting systems and internal controls over financial reporting; • limitations on, or costs associated with, workforce reductions; • the Company may fail to implement its strategy for a particular acquisition, including successfully integrating the acquired business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; • the Company may fail to retain, motivate and integrate key management and other employees of the acquired business; and • the possibility of other costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration and consolidation of operational and administrative systems, processes and infrastructures of the combined company. Any one of these factors could result in delays, increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues related to combining the companies and could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. In addition, we may undertake acquisitions financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing would increase our indebtedness. If we issue equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities would have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. Weakness in general economic conditions in the United States, Europe and other areas in which we operate, weakness in travel demand and the housing market, and/or a significant increase in fuel costs can adversely impact our business. Historically, our results of operations have declined during periods of general economic weakness, as experienced in 2008 and 2009 when our results were adversely impacted by the global economic recession. If economic conditions in the United States, Europe and/or worldwide were to weaken, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted in 2013 and beyond. 19 Table of Contents In 2012, we generated approximately 71% of our car rental T&M revenue from our on-airport locations; therefore, a decline in airline travel will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results of operations. Significant airline capacity reductions, airfare or related fee increases, any events that disrupt or reduce business or leisure air travel such as work stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents, natural disasters, epidemic diseases, or the response of governments to any of these events, could result in reduced air travel and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant increases in fuel prices, a severe protracted disruption in fuel supplies or rationing of fuel could discourage customers from renting cars or reduce or disrupt air travel. Our truck rental business can also be impacted by the housing market. If conditions in the housing market were to weaken, we may see a decline in truck rental transactions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies. For 2013, our objective is to focus on growing our business profitably, strengthening our position as a leading provider of vehicle rental services, continuing to enhance the quality of vehicle rental services we provide to customers, and maintaining and enhancing efficiencies achieved through process improvement and other actions, including certain core strategic initiatives, such as optimizing our two-brand strategy, expanding our revenue sources, capturing incremental profit opportunities and controlling costs and promoting efficiencies. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these initiatives, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We rely on third-party distribution channels, and the success of our business may be affected by these relationships. In 2012, we generated approximately 45% of our car rental reservations through third-party distribution channels, which include: • traditional and online travel agencies, airlines and hotel companies, marketing partners such as credit card companies and membership organizations and other entities that help us attract customers; and • global distribution systems, such as Amadeus, Galileo/Apollo, Sabre and Worldspan that connect travel agents, travel service providers and corporations to our reservations systems. Changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules or arrangements with third-party distribution channels, the termination of any of our relationships or a reduction in the transaction volume of such channels, or a GDS’s inability to process and communicate reservations to us could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if our customers were unable to access our reservation systems through alternate channels. Our business is seasonal, and a disruption in rental activity during our peak season could adversely affect our results of operations. Seasonal changes in our revenues do not typically alter certain of our expenses that are fixed in the short run, such as rent and insurance, and typically result in higher profitability in periods when our revenues are higher and lower profitability in periods when our revenues are lower. In our business, the third quarter of the year has historically been our strongest quarter due to the increased level of leisure travel and household moving activity. In 2012, the third quarter accounted for 29% of our total revenue for the year and was our most profitable quarter as measured by Adjusted EBITDA. Any circumstance or occurrence that disrupts rental activity during the third quarter could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our financial condition and our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our derivative instruments may impact our results of operations. We typically utilize derivative instruments to manage a portion of our risk related to fluctuations in interest rates, gas prices and foreign exchange rates. The derivative instruments we use to manage our risk are usually in the form of interest rate and commodity swaps and foreign exchange forward and swap agreements. Periodically, we are required to determine the change in fair value, called the “mark to market,” of some of these derivative instruments, which can result in a non-cash loss or gain being recognized in our financial results. Significant changes or shifts in interest rates, gas prices or foreign exchange rates will impact the valuation of our derivatives and therefore could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses or gains if such rates or prices fluctuate materially from the time the derivatives were entered into. Accordingly, a fluctuation in such rates or prices may impact our financial position, results of operations and current or future cash flows. In addition, volatility in rates and prices can also impact the cost and effectiveness of our derivative instruments in managing our risks. To the extent any of our derivatives were to result in a gain upon settlement, we would be exposed to credit risk of the counterparties to such derivatives, which are typically large financial institutions. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may adversely impact our results of operations. Our international operations generate revenue and incur operating costs in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, the financial position and results of operations of many of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates among these currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities, to the extent such figures reflect the inclusion of foreign assets and liabilities that are translated into U.S. dollars for presentation in our financial statements, as well as our results of operations. While we take steps to manage our currency exposure, we cannot accurately predict the nature or extent of future exchange rate variability, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position, and we may not be able to effectively limit our exposure to intermediate-and long-term movements in currency exchange rates. We customarily enter into financial transactions such as currency hedging instruments to address these risks, but there can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. We face risks related to liability and insurance. Our businesses expose us to claims for personal injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles and/or customers on our premises and for workers’ compensation claims and other employment-related claims by our employees. We may become exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels resulting from unusually high losses or otherwise. In addition, liabilities in respect of existing or future claims may exceed the level of our reserves and/or our insurance, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance with unaffiliated carriers may not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. Should we experience significant liability for which we did not plan, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. We face risks related to our locations. We lease or have vehicle rental concessions for both the Avis and Budget brands at locations throughout the world, including at airports both in the United States and internationally and train stations throughout Europe, 21 Table of Contents where vehicle rental companies are frequently required to bid periodically for the available locations. If we were to lose any lease or vehicle rental concession, particularly at an airport or a train station in a major metropolitan area, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find a suitable replacement on reasonable terms or at all and our business could be adversely affected. Costs associated with lawsuits or investigations or increases in the legal reserves that we establish based on our assessment of contingent liabilities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to various types of legal claims and lawsuits. We are involved in various contractual, licensee, wage and hour, competition, employee classification, environmental and intellectual property claims and lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business. From time to time, the industry in which we operate is also reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to tax assessments, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, taxes, fines or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us. Subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and regulations. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to laws and regulations including consumer protection, competition, data privacy and security, fraud, customs requirements, currency-exchange regulations, anti-bribery, health and safety, insurance and claims management and other trade-related laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of certain of these laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar foreign laws and regulations. Our continued operation and expansion outside of the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of governmental investigations and violations of such laws. We also participate in relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under such laws. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Any alleged or actual violations of any law or regulation may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, may limit our ability to provide services in any of the countries in which we operate and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to environmental regulations that could render us liable for fines or damages. We are subject to a wide variety of environmental laws and regulations in the United States and internationally in connection with our operations, including, among other things, with respect to the ownership or use of tanks for the storage of petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of solid or liquid wastes. Petroleum products are stored in underground or above-ground tanks at certain of our owned and operated Avis and Budget locations. We maintain liability insurance covering tanks at these locations. In the United States, we have instituted an environmental compliance program designed to ensure that these tanks are properly registered with the state or other jurisdiction in which the tanks are located and are in compliance with 22 Table of Contents applicable technical and operational requirements, including the replacement and upgrade of underground tanks and periodic testing and leak monitoring of underground storage tanks. We are also subject to various environmental regulatory requirements in other countries in which we operate locations with underground or above-ground storage tanks. Nonetheless, the tank systems located at each location may not at all times remain free from undetected leaks, and the use of these tanks may result in significant spills, which may expose us to material liabilities. We may also be subject to requirements related to the remediation of, or the liability for remediation of, substances that have been released into the environment at properties owned or operated by us or at properties to which we send substances for treatment or disposal. Such remediation requirements may be imposed without regard to fault and liability for environmental remediation can be substantial. These remediation requirements and other environmental regulations differ depending on the country where the property is located. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the remediation of contamination at our owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Our compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations may, however, require material expenditures by us or otherwise have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, among others, laws and regulations relating to the insurance products that we sell, consumer privacy and data protection, franchising and licensing laws, automobile-related liability, health care reform and environmental matters could affect our operations, disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and internationally and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices, financial position and results of operations. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Our global operations may expose us to varying risks, which include multiple, and sometimes conflicting, foreign regulatory requirements and laws that are subject to change and are often much different than the laws in the United States, including laws relating to taxes, automobile-related liability, insurance rates and products, consumer privacy and data security, employment matters, environmental matters, cost and fee recovery, the protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property matters and local ownership or investment requirements. We reinsure certain insurance exposures as well as the optional insurance coverages that we offer through unaffiliated third-party insurance companies, which subjects us to regulation under various insurance statutes, including insurance holding company statutes, of the jurisdictions in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled. These regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require insurance holding companies and insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies to register and file certain reports, including information concerning their capital structure, ownership, financial condition and general business operations with the regulatory authority of the applicable jurisdiction, and require prior regulatory agency approval of changes in control of an insurer and intra-corporate transfers of assets within the holding company structure. Any changes in regulations under which our insurance company subsidiaries are bound that alter or impede our reinsurance obligations or subsidiary operations in all or certain particular jurisdictions could adversely impact the economic benefits that we rely upon to support our reinsurance efforts and our decision to reinsure the optional insurance coverages that we offer our customers, which in turn would adversely impact our results of operations. Optional insurance products that we offer to renters in the United States, including, but not limited to, supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, are regulated under state laws governing such products. Our car rental operations in Europe must comply with certain European 23 Table of Contents Union regulations regarding the sale of personal accident insurance by intermediaries. In our other international car rental operations, our offering of optional insurance coverages has not historically been regulated. Any changes in U.S. or international laws that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue and profitability. If customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products from us as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected. We offer loss damage waivers to our customers as an option for them to reduce the financial liability that may be incurred as a result of loss or damage to the rental vehicle. Certain states in the United States have enacted legislation that mandates disclosure to each customer at the time of rental that damage to the rented vehicle may be covered to some extent by the customer’s personal automobile insurance and that loss damage waivers may not be necessary. In addition, some states have statutes which establish or cap the daily rate that can be charged for loss damage waivers. Should new state or federal laws or regulations arise that require additional disclosures or place new limits on our ability to offer loss damage waivers to our customers, then our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely impacted. In almost every state in the United States and certain other international locations where we operate, we recover from consumers various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles. In addition, where permitted, we also recover from consumers certain costs, including concession costs imposed by an airport authority or the owner and/or operator of the premises from which our vehicle is rented. In the United States, our long-standing business practice has been to separately state the existence of these additional costs in our rental agreements and invoices and to disclose to consumers what the additional surcharges used to recover such costs are, together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. We believe that this standard practice comports with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. We may in the future be subject to potential legislative changes or administrative actions in the United States and internationally, which could limit, restrict or prohibit our ability to separately state, charge and recover such costs, which could result in an adverse cost reallocation. If any such changes were to be enacted, there may be an adverse impact or limitation on our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge, which could adversely impact our profitability, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. With respect to consumer privacy and data protection, laws in some countries and jurisdictions in which we operate limit the types of information that we may be able to collect about individuals with whom we deal or propose to deal, as well as how we collect, retain and use the information that we are permitted to collect, some of which is non-public personally identifiable information. The centralized nature of our information systems requires the routine flow of information about customers and potential customers across national borders, particularly in the United States and Europe. If this flow of information were to become illegal, or subject to onerous restrictions, our ability to serve our customers could be seriously impaired for an extended period of time. In addition, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the actions of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenue, increased costs and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, the Payment Card Industry (the “PCI”) imposes strict customer credit card data security standards to ensure that our customers’ credit card information is protected. Failure to meet the PCI data security standards could result in substantial increased fees to credit card companies, other liabilities and/or loss of the right to collect credit card payments The aspect of our business that involves licensing third parties to operate locations under the Avis or Budget brands, in exchange for the payment of a royalty, is regulated by various state franchising laws, as well as by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”). The FTC requires that we make extensive disclosure to prospective licensees but does not require registration. A number of states require registration and/or disclosure in connection with licensing offers and sales. In addition, several states have franchise relationship laws that could limit our ability to, among other things, terminate license agreements or withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. We are also subject to certain regulations affecting our license arrangements in Europe and 24 Table of Contents other international locations. Although our licensing operations have not been materially adversely affected by such existing regulations, we cannot predict the effect of any future U.S. or international legislation or regulations. Should our operations become subject to new laws or regulations that negatively impact our ability to engage in franchising or licensing activities in current or new jurisdictions in which we operate, our results of operations, profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In 2005, federal legislation was enacted that pre-empted state laws which imputed tort liability solely based on ownership of a vehicle involved in an accident. If the current law were to change, our insurance liability exposure could materially increase. In 2010, the United States enacted significant health care reform laws, the constitutionality of which was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2012. Due to the breadth and complexity of the legislation, the current lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, the phased-in nature of the implementation, uncertainty regarding the effect of these laws on health care costs generally, and uncertainty regarding how large employers will respond to the new laws and regulations, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of these laws on our business over the coming years. Possible adverse effects of these laws include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability, changes in our ability to attract or retain employees, and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. The U.S. Congress and other legislative and regulatory authorities in the United States and internationally have considered, and will likely continue to consider, numerous measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emissions become effective, demand for our services could be affected, our fleet and/or other costs could increase, and our business could be adversely affected. We may be held responsible by regulators, courts or others for the actions of, or failures to act by, our licensees, dealers or independent operators, which exposes us to possible fines, other liabilities and negative publicity. Our car and truck rental licensee and dealer locations are independently owned and operated. We also operate many of our Company-owned locations through agreements with “agency operators,” which are third-party independent contractors who receive commissions to operate such locations. Our agreements with our licensees, dealers and agency operators (“third-party operators”) generally require that they comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, including our internal policies and standards. Under these agreements, third-party operators retain control over the employment and management of all personnel at their locations. Regulators, courts or others may seek to hold us responsible for the actions of, or failures to act by third-party operators. Although we actively monitor the operations of these third-party operators, and under certain circumstances have the ability to terminate their agreements for failure to adhere to contracted operational standards, we are unlikely to detect all problems. Moreover, there are occasions when the actions of third-party operators may not be clearly distinguishable from our own. It is our policy to vigorously seek to be dismissed from any such claims involving third-party operators and to pursue indemnity for any adverse outcomes that affect our Company. Failure of third-party operators to comply with laws and regulations may expose us to liability, damages and publicity that may adversely affect our business, our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Our global operations may be exposed to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate. Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in countries with political and economic instability. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than in our other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes us to a number of risks, including: • multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change; • the imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints; • national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and • political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries. The occurrence of one or more of these events may negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We face risks arising from our heavy reliance on communications networks and centralized information systems. We rely heavily on information systems, including our reservation system, to accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our fleet of vehicles, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. We have centralized our information systems, and we rely on communications service providers to link our systems with the business locations these systems were designed to serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet, slow rental and sales processes and otherwise adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our systems’ business continuity plans and insurance programs seek to mitigate such risks but they cannot fully eliminate the risk that a disruption could be experienced in any of our information systems. Any failure by us to protect confidential information of our customers against security breaches, including cyber-security breaches, could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Third parties may have the technology or expertise to breach the security of our customer transaction data and our security measures may not prevent physical security or cyber-security breaches, which could result in substantial harm to our business, our reputation and our results of operations. We rely on encryption and/or authentication technology licensed and, at times, administered by third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Our outsourcing agreements with third-party service providers generally require that providers have adequate security systems in place to protect our customer transaction data. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other cyber-security developments could render our security systems and technology or those employed by our third-party service providers vulnerable to a breach. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Cyber-security risks such as malicious software and attempts to gain unauthorized access to data are rapidly evolving and could lead to disruptions in our reservation system or other data systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information or corruption of data. Any successful efforts by individuals to infiltrate, break into, disrupt, damage or otherwise steal from the Company’s, its licensees’ or its third-party service providers’ 26 Table of Contents security or information systems could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability that could substantially harm our business, cash flows or results of operations. In addition, the industry that regulates the usage of credit and debit cards (the Payment Card Industry, or the “PCI”) imposes strict customer credit card data security standards to ensure that our customers’ credit card information is protected. Failure to meet the PCI data security standards could result in substantial increased fees to credit card companies, other liabilities and/or loss of the right to collect credit card payments, which could adversely impact our operations. Failure to protect customer credit card and other information can also result in governmental investigations or material civil or criminal liability. We face risks associated with our like-kind exchange program. We utilize a like-kind exchange program whereby we replace vehicles in a manner that allows tax gains on vehicles sold in the United States to be deferred. The program has resulted in a material deferral of federal and state income taxes beginning in 2004. The benefit of deferral is dependent on reinvestment of vehicle disposition proceeds in replacement vehicles within a prescribed period of time (usually six months). An extended downsizing of our fleet could result in reduced deferrals, utilization of tax attributes and increased payment of federal and state income taxes that could require us to make material cash payments. Such a downsizing or reduction in purchases would likely occur if, and to the extent, we are unable to obtain financing when our asset-backed rental car financings mature or in connection with a significant decrease in demand for vehicle rentals. Therefore, we cannot offer assurance that the expected tax deferral will continue or that the relevant law concerning the like-kind exchange program will remain intact in its current form. Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather, general labor strikes and political disruptions in the United States or in other countries in which we operate or in which our auto manufacturers are located, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, pandemic illness, power outages, gasoline shortages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our Company-operated and/or licensed locations, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of fleet vehicles from the U.S. and international auto manufacturers and disruption in the transport of our fleet vehicles to Company-operated and/or licensed locations. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of debt, which could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to react to future changes in our business. As of December 31, 2012, our total debt was approximately $9.7 billion and we had $869 million of available letter of credit and borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or acquisitions and other purposes; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; and • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, as well as changes in government regulation and changes to our business. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to satisfy and manage our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate cash flow and on overall financial market conditions. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, or interest on our debt obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt obligations and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell or curtail assets or operations, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell or curtail our assets or operations, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial outstanding indebtedness. The agreement governing our credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2012, our revolving credit facility provided us with aggregate capacity of up to $1.5 billion, $869 million of which remains available for borrowings. All of those borrowings would be secured and the lenders under our senior credit facility would have a prior claim to the assets that secure such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial or other covenants contained in our debt instruments, including our senior credit facility. Many of our debt instruments, including our senior credit facility, contain financial and other covenants that impose significant requirements on us and limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient earnings to enable us to satisfy the financial covenants included in our debt instruments. Our failure to comply with these covenants, if not waived, would cause a default under the senior credit facility and could result in a cross-default and a required repayment of principal under our U.S. asset-backed conduit facilities from a portion of our vehicle disposition proceeds or lease payments that we make to our vehicle program subsidiaries and other asset-backed facilities. If such a failure were to occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or obtain a replacement for such facilities and in certain circumstances such failure could also give rise to a default under the instruments that govern our other indebtedness. We can be adversely impacted by disruptions in the credit and asset-backed securities markets, which could lead to increases in interest rates and could disrupt our ability to obtain financing for our operations. We rely upon financing for our operations, particularly asset-backed financing, through asset-backed securities and the credit market. Our total asset-backed debt as of December 31, 2012 was approximately $6.8 billion, with remaining available capacity of approximately $2.5 billion. Our $2.25 billion asset-backed U.S. rental car conduit facility is a two-year facility which matures in October 2014. We also maintain asset-backed facilities in Canada and Australia, and a vehicle-backed credit facility in Europe. If the asset-backed financing market is disrupted for any reason, we may be unable to obtain refinancing for our operations at current levels, or at all, when our asset-backed rental car financings mature, and any new financing or refinancing of our existing financing could increase our borrowing costs, including due to an increase in required collateral levels. In addition, we could be subject to increased collateral requirements to the extent we request any amendment or renewal of any of our existing financing. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt obligations and could reduce our future profitability. A portion of our borrowings, primarily our vehicle-backed borrowings, bears interest at variable rates that expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, whether due to an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would 28 Table of Contents increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012, our total outstanding debt of approximately $9.7 billion included unhedged interest rate sensitive debt of approximately $2.2 billion. During our seasonal borrowing peak in 2012, outstanding unhedged interest rate sensitive debt totaled approximately $3.3 billion. Restrictive covenants in agreements and instruments governing our debt obligations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The terms of certain of our indebtedness, including the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes and the agreement governing our senior credit facility contain, and our future debt instruments may contain, various restrictive covenants and provisions applicable to us and our subsidiaries that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create or incur liens; • make distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • engage in acquisitions; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. Risks Related to the Separation We are relying on our former subsidiaries to fulfill their obligations under the certain agreements related to the Separation. We continue to manage the administration of certain legacy items which remain following the completion of the Separation. In connection with the Separation, we entered into certain agreements, including a Separation and Distribution Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”) with Realogy Corporation (“Realogy”), Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (“Wyndham Worldwide”) and Travelport, Inc. (“Travelport”) governing our relationships following the Separation. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement and related agreements (including a tax sharing agreement, the “Tax Sharing Agreement”), Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide are responsible for 62.5% and 37.5%, respectively, of certain contingent and other of our corporate liabilities including those relating to unresolved tax and legal matters as well as 100% of certain liabilities that relate to their respective businesses (the “Assumed Obligations”), specifically (i) all taxes imposed on us and certain of our subsidiaries and (ii) certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities and/or those of our subsidiaries to the extent incurred prior to August 23, 2006. If either Realogy or Wyndham Worldwide were to default in its payment, when due, of any such Assumed Obligations, each non-defaulting party, including us, would be required to pay an equal portion of the defaulted amounts, and any such default may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Realogy was acquired by an affiliate of Apollo Management VI, L.P. following the Separation. In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, Realogy posted a letter of credit for the benefit of the Company in an amount designed to cover its estimated share of the Assumed Obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had recorded receivables from Realogy of approximately $64 million. There can be no assurance that such letter of credit will be sufficient or effective to cover Realogy’s actual obligations if and when they arise. In addition, the Separation Agreement effectively provides Realogy with the right to control the process for resolving disputes related to many of the Assumed Obligations. Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and/or Travelport (the “separated companies”) are required to indemnify us in respect of certain liabilities that related to their respective businesses, including certain effective guarantees that result from either us or one of our subsidiaries remaining a named lessee on real estate leases pertaining to properties occupied by the separated companies as well as certain litigation that pertains to the businesses of such companies in which we are also named. Any failure by the separated companies to pay any of their assumed liabilities when due or to indemnify us when required may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock experienced substantial volatility in the past and may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry, including our key suppliers; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, dispositions, strategies, marketing affiliations, projections, fleet costs, pricing actions or other competitive actions; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • changes in investors’ and analysts’ perceptions of our industry, business or related industries; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions and conditions in the credit markets. Our shareholders’ percentage of ownership may be diluted in the future. Our shareholders’ percentage of ownership may be diluted in the future due to equity issuances, conversion of our convertible senior notes due 2014, the exercise of warrants that we issued in 2009 or equity awards that we granted or will grant to our directors, officers and employees. Holders of our convertible senior notes may convert their notes into up to approximately 8 million shares of our common stock. In 2012, we granted approximately 1.9 million restricted stock units and in January 2013, we granted approximately 1.0 million restricted stock units. We also expect to grant restricted stock units, stock options and/or other types of equity awards in the future. 30 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and corporate by-laws, as well as requirements under Delaware law, could prevent or delay a potential acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and laws in the State of Delaware contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the prospective acquirer and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our Company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our Company and our stockholders. Conversion of our convertible senior notes due 2014 and the note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the notes may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Any of the following transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock in connection with our issuance of 3.5% convertible senior notes due 2014 and the note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with such outstanding notes: • the conversion of some or all of our convertible senior notes, any sales by noteholders in the public market of our common stock issued upon such conversion and any selling of our common stock (including short selling) due to the existence of the notes; • the exercise of some or all of the warrants, any sales by warrantholders in the public market of our common stock issued upon such exercise of the warrants and any selling of our common stock (including short selling) due to the existence of the warrants; and • the entry into, or the modification or the unwinding of, various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock by the counterparties in connection with their obligations under the note hedge and warrant transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 Table of Contents 