ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our business The high level of competition in the vehicle rental industry may lead to reduced rental volumes, downward pricing or an inability to increase our prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The vehicle rental industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We believe that price is one of the primary competitive factors in the vehicle rental industry. Our competitors, some of whom may have access to substantial capital, may seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing. To the extent that we match competitors’ downward pricing, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent that we do not match or remain within a reasonable competitive margin of our competitors’ pricing, it could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may lose rental volume. The Internet has increased pricing transparency among vehicle rental companies by enabling cost-conscious customers to more easily obtain and compare the rates available from various vehicle rental companies for any given rental. This transparency may increase the prevalence and intensity of price competition in the future. We face risks of increased fleet costs, both generally and due to the possibility that automobile manufacturers could change or cease their repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs. Fleet costs represented approximately 27% of our aggregate expenses for 2006 and can vary from year to year based on the prices at which we are able to purchase and dispose of rental vehicles. For 2006 and 2005, approximately 88% and 95%, respectively, of the rental cars purchased for our domestic car fleet were the subject of agreements requiring automobile manufacturers to repurchase them or guarantee the depreciation rate for a specified period of time. We refer to cars subject to such agreements as “program cars.” Under these repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, automobile manufacturers agree to repurchase cars at a specified price during a specified time period or guarantee the rate of depreciation for a specified period of time, typically subject to certain car condition and mileage requirements. Repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, therefore, enable us to determine, in advance, our depreciation expense, which is a significant cost factor in our car rental operations. Repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs also limit the risk to us that the market value of a car, at the time of its disposition, will be less than its estimated residual (or depreciated) value. Automobile manufacturers may not continue to sell cars to us subject to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs at all or on terms consistent with past practice. In addition, we intend to reduce the number of program cars we purchase to mitigate anticipated increases in fleet costs. Should any such decrease in the percentage of our car rental fleet subject to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs occur, we would expect to bear increased risk relating to the residual market value of our car rental fleet and the depreciation of rental vehicles, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The overall cost of cars subject to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs could also increase if the manufacturers were to make changes to these programs, particularly if such changes were to result in a decrease in the repurchase price or guaranteed depreciation without a corresponding decrease to the original purchase price. Repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs also generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the 16 Table of Contents size of our fleet rapidly in response to an economic downturn or changes in demand by returning cars sooner than originally expected. This flexibility may be reduced in the future to the extent the percentage of program cars in our car rental fleet decreases or this feature of repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs is altered. During 2006, approximately 74% of the cars acquired for our U.S. car rental fleet were manufactured by either General Motors Corporation or Ford Motor Company. A default on any repurchase or guaranteed depreciation agreement, particularly with respect to GM or Ford, might leave us with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer with respect to program cars that were either (a) sold for an amount less than the amount guaranteed under the applicable agreement or (b) sold and returned to the car manufacturer but for which we were not paid, as well as potential additional expenses if the prices at which we were able to dispose of program cars were less than the specified prices under the repurchase or guaranteed depreciation program. Any increased risk with respect to the likelihood of these defaults or a decline in the results of operations or financial condition of the manufacturers of the cars we purchase could also impact our ability to finance the purchase of cars to maintain our car rental fleet. The relative strength of the used vehicle marketplace materially impacts the costs of our rental cars and trucks not covered by repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs or trade-in agreements. We currently sell these used vehicles through auctions, third party resellers and other channels. These markets may not produce stable used vehicle pricing in the future. Based on the number of used trucks and non-program cars produced by our rental operations annually, and our intent to increase this number, any downturn in the used vehicle marketplace could have a material impact on our fleet holding costs and profitability. Our car rental business is dependent on airline passenger traffic, and disruptions in travel patterns could harm our business. In 2006, we generated approximately 81% of our domestic car rental revenue from our corporate owned on-airport locations. As a result, a decline in airline passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Events that affect air travel could include economic downturns, work stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents or threats, pandemic diseases, natural disasters or the response of governments to any of these events. We also face increased costs of maintaining our positions on-airport through increased competitive bidding and minimum airport guarantees. We are dependent on third party distribution channels, and the success of our business depends in significant part on these relationships. The operators of third party distribution channels, through which we generate approximately 44% of our domestic reservations, generally can cancel or modify their agreements with us upon relatively short notice. Changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules or arrangements with third party distribution channels, the termination of any of our relationships or a reduction in the transaction volume of such channels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of these reservations are made in connection with GDS (Amadeus, Galileo, Sabre and Worldspan), which aggregate reservations from various sources. Our largest third party source of reservations (other than from GDS) in 2006 was responsible for less than 2% of our domestic reservations. Our business is seasonal, and a disruption in rental activity during our peak season could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In our business, the third quarter of the year has historically been our strongest quarter due to the increased level of leisure travel and household moving activity. In 2006, the third quarter accounted for approximately 28% of our vehicle rental revenue and 36% of ABCR’s income before income taxes. Any occurrence that disrupts rental activity during the third quarter could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our liquidity and/or our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant amount of our borrowings, primarily our seasonal borrowings, bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our net income could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, our total outstanding debt of approximately $7.1 billion included interest rate sensitive debt of approximately $500 million (either by its original terms or through the use of interest rate derivatives), which had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6% per annum. During our seasonal borrowing peak in 2006, outstanding interest rate sensitive debt totaled approximately $1.5 billion, with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6% per annum. We face risks arising from our heavy reliance on communications networks and centralized information systems. We rely heavily on information systems, including our reservation system, to accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our fleet of vehicles, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. We have centralized our information systems, and we rely on communications services providers to link our systems with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet, slow rental and sales processes and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our systems’ business continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, not eliminate it. In addition, because our systems contain personally identifiable non-public information about millions of individuals and businesses, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or the malfeasance of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenue, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. We face risks related to liability and insurance. Our businesses expose us to claims for personal injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles and for workers’ compensation claims and other employment-related claims by our employees. We may become exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels resulting from unusually high losses or otherwise. In addition, liabilities in respect of existing or future claims may exceed the level of our reserves and/or our insurance, and we may not have sufficient capital available to pay any uninsured claims. Furthermore, insurance with unaffiliated carriers may not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. Environmental regulations could subject us to liability for fines or damages. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including, among other things, with respect to the ownership and operation of tanks for the storage of petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils. We have established a compliance program for our tank systems that is intended to ensure that the tanks are properly registered with the state or other jurisdiction in which the tanks are located and have been either replaced or upgraded to meet applicable leak detection and spill, overfill, corrosion protection and vapor recovery requirements. These tank systems may not at all times remain free from undetected leaks, and the use of these tanks may result in significant spills. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the cleanup of contamination at our owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Our compliance 18 Table of Contents with existing or future environmental laws and regulations may, however, require material expenditures by us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in the U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory environment that affect our operations, including laws and regulations relating to the insurance products we sell, consumer privacy, data security, automobile-related liability and insurance rates, could disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and the other countries and jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices or our profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. The optional insurance products, including, but not limited to, supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, offered to renters providing various insurance coverages in our domestic vehicle rental operations are regulated under state laws governing the licensing of such products. In our international car rental operations, our offering of optional products providing insurance coverage historically has not been regulated. Any changes in U.S. or foreign law that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue. If customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products through us as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In almost every state, we recover various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles. In addition, where permitted, we also recover the concession cost imposed by an airport authority or the owner and/or operator of the premises from which our vehicle is rented. Our long standing business practice has been to separately state these additional surcharges in our rental agreements and invoices and disclose the existence of these surcharges to consumers together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. This standard practice comports with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. However, there are several legislative proposals which, if enacted, would define which surcharges are permissible and establish calculation formulas which may differ from the manner in which we set our surcharges. We cannot assure you that if any of these proposals were to be enacted there will not be an adverse impact or limitation on our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge. We may be held responsible by third parties, regulators or courts for the actions of, or failures to act by, our licensees, which exposes us to possible fines, other liabilities and bad publicity. Our car and truck rental licensee locations, which include both franchisees and dealers, are independently owned and operated. Our agreements with our licensees require that they comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, including our internal policies and standards. Under these licensee agreements, licensees retain control over the employment and management of all personnel. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions of, or failures to act by, our licensees. Although we maintain the right to monitor the operations of licensees and have the ability to terminate licensee agreements for failure to adhere to contracted operational standards, we are unlikely to detect all problems. Moreover, there are occasions when our and our licensees’ activities may not be clearly distinguishable. It is our policy to vigorously seek to be dismissed from any such claims and to pursue indemnity for any adverse decisions. Failure to comply with laws and regulations by our licensees may expose us to liability and damages that may adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents Significant increases in fuel costs or limitations in fuel supplies could harm our business. We could be adversely affected by limitations in fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices. A severe or protracted disruption in fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, either by directly discouraging consumers from renting cars and trucks or by causing a decline in airline passenger traffic. Risks related to our indebtedness We have a substantial amount of debt which could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2006, our total debt was approximately $7.1 billion and we had approximately $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other purposes; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulation and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions; and • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of increases in interest rates. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes limits, but does not prohibit, ABCR or its subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2006, ABCR’s senior secured credit facility provided us commitments for additional borrowings of up to $1.2 billion, in the aggregate. All of those borrowings would be secured and the lenders under ABCR’s senior secured credit facility would have a prior claim to the assets that secure such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above in the previous risk factor could intensify. Restrictive covenants in agreements and instruments governing our debt may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The indenture governing our senior unsecured notes and the agreement governing ABCR’s senior secured credit facility contain, and our future debt instruments may contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; 20 Table of Contents • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • incur liens; • make distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. We require a significant amount of cash to service all of our indebtedness and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations at levels sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, and our cash needs may increase. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and meet our other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. Risks related to the separation We have little recent operating history as a stand-alone vehicle rental company. The financial information included in this annual report on Form 10-K does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone vehicle rental company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Prior to the completion of the Cendant Separation, the vehicle rental business was operated by Cendant as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Cendant or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for our vehicle rental business, including, but not limited to, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting. Our financial results for all periods other than fourth quarter 2006 for our operating segments reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Cendant for these and similar functions. These allocations may be more or less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a stand-alone vehicle rental company during those periods. • Generally, prior to completion of the Cendant Separation, working capital requirements and capital for general corporate purposes for the vehicle rental business, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, were historically satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Cendant’s broader corporate organization. With the completion of the Cendant Separation, we will not have access to the cash generated by the businesses of Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide or Travelport in order to finance our working capital or other cash requirements (except for obligations of these entities to make payments to us for certain specified items). Without access to the cash generated by these companies, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, or through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. 21 Table of Contents • With the completion of the Cendant Separation, the cost of capital for our business may be higher than our cost of capital prior to the completion of the Cendant Separation. • While we have entered into short-term transition agreements that govern certain commercial and other relationships among us, Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport, those temporary arrangements may not capture the benefits (including economies of scope and scale in customer and vendor relationships) our business has enjoyed as a result of being integrated with those companies. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a company separate from Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate now that the Cendant Separation is complete, and we may experience increased costs as a result of the Cendant Separation. Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport are contractually obligated to provide to us only those services specified in the transition services agreement and the other agreements we entered into with them in connection with the separation. We may be unable to replace, in a timely manner or on comparable terms, the services that Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide or Travelport previously provided to us that are not specified in the transition services agreement or the other agreements. In addition, if Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide or Travelport do not continue to perform effectively the transition services and other services that are called for under the transition services agreement and the other agreements, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. Furthermore, after the expiration of the transition services and other agreements, we may be unable to replace, in a timely manner or on comparable terms, the services specified in such agreements. Our agreements with Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated parties. The agreements related to the separation, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, Transition Services Agreement and other agreements, were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations and thus may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated parties. Such terms include, among other things, those related to allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations among the companies. We are relying on Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport to fulfill their obligations under the Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements. Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide are responsible for 62.5% and 37.5%, respectively of certain contingent and other of our corporate liabilities including those relating to unresolved tax and legal matters. More specifically, Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide have generally assumed and are responsible for the payment of their allocated percentage of (i) all taxes imposed on us and certain of our subsidiaries and (ii) certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities and/or our subsidiaries to the extent incurred prior to August 23, 2006. These contingent and other corporate liabilities include liabilities relating to (i) Cendant’s terminated or divested businesses, including among others, the former PHH and Marketing Services (Affinion) businesses, (ii) liabilities relating to the Travelport sale, if any, (iii) the Securities Action and related litigation (for a further description of these litigation matters, see “Legal Proceedings”) and (iv) generally any actions with respect to the Cendant Separation or the distributions brought by any third party. If any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any such assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party, including us, would be required to pay an equal portion of the amounts in default. 22 Table of Contents Moreover, the Separation and Distribution Agreement provides for cross-indemnities designed to place financial responsibility of certain liabilities and other obligations with the proper company. Any failure by Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide or Travelport to pay any of their assumed liabilities when due or to indemnify us when required may cause a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Risks related to our common stock The market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Your percentage ownership may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we granted to our directors, officers and employees and the accelerated vesting of other equity awards. As disclosed in the notes to our financial statements included herein, on August 1, 2006, we granted approximately 1.8 million restricted stock units and approximately 0.5 million stock-settled stock appreciation rights. While we anticipate that the value of annual grants in future years will be lower than the August 2006 grant, we do expect to grant restricted stock units and/or other types of equity awards in the future. Our stockholder rights plan and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; 23 Table of Contents • the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In 2006, prior to the Cendant Separation, our Board adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred stock. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (i) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board of Directors before the rights are separated from our common stock) after the public announcement that a person or group has become an “acquiring person” by acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or a later date determined by our Board before the rights are separated from our common stock) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer that, if completed, would result in that person or group becoming an acquiring person. The issuance of preferred stock pursuant to the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 