Risk Factors" section of this report in Item 1A. 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Culp, Inc., which we sometimes refer to as the company, manufactures and markets mattress fabrics (also known as mattress ticking) used for covering mattresses and box springs, and upholstery fabrics primarily for use in production of upholstered furniture (residential and commercial). Our executive offices are located in High Point, NC. Management believes that Culp is the largest producer of mattress fabrics in North America, as measured by total sales, and one of the largest marketers of upholstery fabrics for furniture in North America, again measured by total sales. Our mattress fabrics are used primarily in the production of bedding products, including mattresses, box springs, and mattress sets. Our upholstery fabrics are used in the production of residential and commercial upholstered furniture, sofas, recliners, chairs, loveseats, sectionals, sofa-beds, and office seating. Culp primarily markets fabrics that have broad appeal in the "good" and "better" priced categories of furniture and bedding. The company has two operating segments - mattress fabrics and upholstery fabrics. The mattress fabric business markets an array of woven and knitted fabrics used by bedding manufacturers. The upholstery fabrics segment markets a wide variety of products in all categories of fabric used as coverings for furniture. Total net sales in fiscal 2007 were $250.5 million. The mattress fabrics segment had net sales of $107.8 million (43% of total net sales), while the upholstery fabrics segment had net sales of $142.7 million (57% of total net sales). Mattress fabric sales grew during fiscal 2007, while upholstery sales have declined during a time of dramatic changes in the upholstery fabrics industry. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, our total sales of mattress fabrics exceeded sales of upholstery fabrics for the first time. The company expects this trend to grow over the course of fiscal 2008. Culp markets a variety of fabrics in different categories, including fabrics produced at our manufacturing facilities and fabrics produced by other suppliers. The company had seven active manufacturing plants as of the end of fiscal 2007, which are located in North and South Carolina, Quebec, Canada, and Shanghai, China. We also source fabrics from other manufacturers, located primarily in China, Turkey and in the U.S., with almost all of those fabrics being produced specifically for the company and created by Culp designers. We operate distribution centers in North Carolina and Shanghai, China to facilitate distribution of our products. In recent years, the portion of total company sales represented by fabrics produced outside of our U.S. and Canadian facilities has increased significantly, while sales of goods produced in our U.S. manufacturing plants have decreased. This trend is especially strong in the upholstery fabrics segment, where more than half of our sales now consist of fabrics produced in Asia and where we have recently closed a number of U.S. manufacturing plants. We have experienced dramatic changes in our business since 2000, in both of our operating segments. Significant demand has arisen for certain fabrics not produced in our U.S. plants, and we have moved rapidly to develop sources for the products being demanded by our customers. Seven years ago, we were a much more vertically integrated manufacturer of fabrics, especially in upholstery fabrics, with large amounts of capital committed to U.S.-based manufacturing fixed assets. Today, the company is a more flexible fabric producer and marketer, with a smaller fixed asset base, but also with significantly lower overall sales. With the changes that have been made over the past seven years, however, we believe we now have a platform upon which we can build to take advantage of the opportunities in the bedding and furniture industries. 2 A significant development during fiscal year 2007 was an asset acquisition by our mattress fabrics segment from International Textile Group (ITG), as ITG exited the mattress fabrics business. This acquisition allows us to take advantage of recent capital investments at mattress fabrics facilities that have improved our efficiency and production costs, and we believe the transaction will add significantly to the sales and profits of the mattress fabrics segment. In the upholstery fabrics segment, a significant and growing portion of our fabrics are now produced by other manufacturers, but in most cases the company continues to control important components of the production process, such as design, finishing, quality control and distribution. Microdenier suedes and a variety of other fabrics are now sourced in China through our sourcing, finishing and distribution operation located near Shanghai. In mattress fabrics, knitted fabrics represent a growing portion of our sales, as consumer demand for this type of mattress covering has risen significantly. These fabrics, along with a portion of our damask product line, are sourced from outside providers. We will continue to look to a variety of sources for mattress ticking to remain flexible and preserve our ability to meet our customers' needs. As these shifts in our business have continued, the company has dramatically reduced the size and scope of its U.S. upholstery fabrics manufacturing operations, since more than half of our products are now sourced in China. In the mattress fabrics business, a shift by bedding makers to one-sided mattresses, along with product shifts to knitted ticking for top panels of mattresses and common border fabrics, which is the fabric on the side of the mattress and box spring, have affected demand for certain categories of our products. We have made dramatic changes in our operating assets, product mix and business model to address the challenges and opportunities facing the company. Additional information about trends and developments in each of our business segments is provided in the "Segments" discussion below. General Information The company was organized as a North Carolina corporation in 1972 and made its initial public offering in 1983. Since 1997, the company has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol "CFI." Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to April 30. Culp maintains an Internet website at www.culpinc.com. We will make this annual report and our other annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, available free of charge on our Internet site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information included on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report. Segments Our two operating segments are mattress fabrics and upholstery fabrics. The following table sets forth certain information for each of our segments. 3 Sales by Fiscal Year ($ in Millions) and Percentage of Total Company Sales ------------------------------------------------ SEGMENT Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2005 ------------------------------------------------ Mattress Fabrics $107.8 (43%) $93.7 (36%) $105.4 (37%) ------------------------------------------------ Upholstery Fabrics Non-U.S.-Produced Sales $82.4 (33%) $59.2 (23%) $31.2 (11%) U.S.-Produced Sales $60.3 (24%) $108.2 (41%) $149.8 (52%) ------------------------------------------------ Total Upholstery $142.7 (57%) $167.4 (64%) $181.1 (63%) ------------------------------------------------ Total company $250.5 (100%) $261.1 (100%) $286.5 (100%) ------------------------------------------------ Additional financial information about the company's operating segments can be found in footnote 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Mattress Fabrics. The mattress fabrics segment manufactures and markets mattress ticking to bedding manufacturers. These fabrics encompass woven jacquard ticking, knitted ticking and printed ticking to a lesser extent, as this product line has become less popular. Culp Home Fashions, as this business is known in the trade, manufacturing facilities are located in Stokesdale, North Carolina, and St. Jerome, Quebec, Canada. Both of these plants manufacture jacquard (damask) ticking, while the St. Jerome plant also produces certain yarn for internal consumption and the Stokesdale plant also produces printed ticking. The Stokesdale plant also has finished goods distribution capabilities and the division offices are also located here. Knitted ticking is sourced from a manufacturer who works closely with the company to produce fabrics according to our proprietary design specifications and quality standards. In recent years, we have taken significant steps to further enhance our competitive position in this segment by consolidating all of our mattress fabrics manufacturing into the Stokesdale and St. Jerome facilities. The company had capital expenditures during the period fiscal 2005 through 2007 totaling approximately $11.0 million, of which $8.0 million was related to a capital project involving the relocation of ticking looms from an upholstery fabric plant to the existing facilities in the U.S. and Canada, along with the purchase of new weaving machines that are faster and more efficient than the equipment they replaced. Additionally, we had a $1.3 million capital project that significantly enhanced our finishing capabilities in this segment. These capital investments enhanced our capacity and capabilities in the mattress fabrics segment and played a significant role in making the ITG acquisition described below feasible. In January 2007, we completed an acquisition in our mattress fabrics business, purchasing certain assets from International Textile Group, Inc. (ITG) related to the mattress fabrics product line of ITG's Burlington House division. ITG had made a decision to exit the mattress ticking business, and we purchased ITG's finished goods inventory, certain proprietary rights, and other assets related to the product line. The purchase did not include any accounts receivable or property plant and equipment, and did not involve the assumption of any liabilities other than certain purchase orders. The consideration given for the acquisition was $8.1 million, paid through a combination of cash and the issuance of the company's common stock. In connection with the acquisition, ITG agreed to provide certain transition services and to manufacture goods for us for a limited time to support our efforts to transition the former ITG mattress fabric products into our operations. This acquisition has enhanced our competitive position in the mattress fabrics industry and has provided the opportunity to significantly increase our mattress fabric sales by filling the demand from customers previously served by ITG. Upholstery Fabrics. The upholstery fabrics segment markets a variety of fabrics for residential and commercial furniture, including jacquard woven fabrics, velvets, microdenier suedes, woven dobbies, knitted fabrics, and piece-dyed woven products. Historically, all of our upholstery fabrics have been produced in our U.S. manufacturing plants. In fiscal year 2007, however, sales of upholstery fabrics made in non-U.S. locations, including our facilities in China, exceeded U.S.-produced sales for the first time. This segment operates fabric manufacturing facilities in Anderson, South Carolina, and Shanghai, China. We market fabrics produced in these two plants, as well as a wide variety of upholstery fabrics sourced from an array of third party producers, mostly in the U.S. and China. 4 As demand for U.S.-produced upholstery has continued to decline, we have continued to take aggressive steps to reduce our U.S. manufacturing costs, capacity, and selling, general and administrative expenses. In fiscal 2007 we announced the closing of our Graham, North Carolina upholstery plant and our Lincolnton, North Carolina yarn plant. The production from the Graham plant was moved to our Anderson, South Carolina and Shanghai, China plants, with a portion being outsourced to third party suppliers. The remaining yarn production in Lincolnton was outsourced to other suppliers, and we now obtain all of our yarn from third party producers. These plant closings are in addition to a number of substantial restructuring actions in recent years, which have left the company with only one U.S. upholstery manufacturing plant. We have an upholstery distribution facility in Burlington, North Carolina, and our Tupelo, Mississppi distribution operation has been outsourced to a third party provider. The result of our restructuring actions over the past several years has been a large reduction in capacity and related costs for U.S. production of upholstery fabrics, accompanied by a reduction of almost 60% in sales of U.S.-produced fabrics since fiscal 2005 (45% from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007). These developments are a continuation of a longer-term trend that has affected the company and the upholstery fabric business for the past seven years. At the end of fiscal 2000, we had fourteen manufacturing plants in the U.S. for upholstery fabrics, with total sales in the segment of $382 million. The book value of these manufacturing assets in the segment was $92 million at the end of fiscal 2000 and $52 million at the end of fiscal 2004. By comparison, assets currently operating in the upholstery fabrics segment (in the U.S.) have a total book value of $3.4 million. Total segment sales for fiscal 2007 were $142.7 million, and of that amount only $60.3 million represents sales of fabrics produced in the U.S. For additional discussion of restructuring activities in the upholstery fabrics segment, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." During the same time that we have been reducing our U.S. upholstery operations in response to declining demand for U.S.-produced fabrics, we have been agressively expanding our operations located in China in response to increasing demand for upholstery products produced in that country. In 2003, we began a strategy to link our strong customer relationships, design expertise and production technology with low cost fabric manufacturers in China in order to deliver enhanced value to our customers throughout the world. The operations near Shanghai, China, began with a finishing and inspection operation, where goods woven in China by selected outside suppliers are treated with finishing processes and subjected to U.S. quality control measures before being distributed to customers. In subsequent years, a variety of finished goods (with no further finishing needed) began to be sourced through our China operations, and in fiscal 2006 the operation was expanded to include a facility where upholstery fabrics are cut and sewn into "kits" that are made to the specifications of furniture manufacturing customers in the U.S. This "cut and sew" operation expanded rapidly during fiscal 2007. Cut and sew "kit" operations have become an important method for furniture producers to reduce production costs by moving a larger percentage of the labor component of furniture manufacturing to lower cost environments, and our participation in this type of operation is an important element of our ability to grow market share. Other developments in our China operations during fiscal 2007 include the introduction of velvet fabric production, expansion of our product development and design capabilities in China, further strengthening of key strategic partnerships with weaving mills, and expanded distribution facilities. Our operations in China now include three manufacturing plants and two buildings devoted to distribution activities. Other expansions of our operations in China are being planned or analyzed, as this region continues to grow as a center of activity in the furniture and upholstery fabric manufacturing industries. 5 As our activities and opportunities in China continue to expand, our strategy has not changed. The company entered China with the view that we would take advantage of the variety of products and lower cost environment available in China, while still maintaining control of the "value-added" processes such as design, finishing, quality control, and logistics. This strategic approach has allowed us to limit our investment of capital in fixed assets and to lower the costs of our products significantly, while continuing to leverage our design and finishing expertise, industry knowledge and important relationships. In this way, we maintain our ability to provide furniture manufacturers with products from every category of fabric used to cover upholstered furniture, and to meet continually changing consumer preferences. Overview of Industry and Markets Culp markets products primarily to manufacturers that operate in three principal markets. The mattress fabrics segment supplies the bedding industry, which produces mattress sets (mattresses, box springs, and foundations). The upholstery fabrics segment supplies the residential and commercial furniture industries. The residential furniture market includes upholstered furniture sold to consumers for household use, including sofas, sleep sofas, chairs, recliners and sectionals. The commercial furniture and fabrics market includes upholstered office seating and modular office systems sold primarily for use in offices and other institutional settings, and commercial textile wall covering. The principal industries into which the company sells products are described below. Overview of Bedding Industry The bedding industry has experienced growth in sales in recent years, primarily due to a relatively strong market during these years, as well as higher average selling prices of mattresses. According to the International Sleep Products Association (ISPA), a trade association, the U.S. wholesale bedding industry accounted for an estimated $6.8 billion in sales in 2006, a 4.7% increase over revised numbers for 2005. The industry is comprised of several hundred manufacturers, but the largest four manufacturers accounted for more than 55% of the total wholesale shipments in 2006, while the top fifteen accounted for 80%. The bedding industry has averaged approximately 6.5% annual growth over the past twenty years, with only one year experiencing a decline in revenue (by 0.3% in 2001). It has proven to be a stable and mature industry, and has grown despite several economic downturns over the past twenty years. This stability and resistance to economic downturns is partly due to replacement purchases, which account for an estimated 70% of bedding industry sales. Unlike the residential furniture industry, which has faced intense competition from imports, the bedding industry has faced limited competition from imports. The primary reasons for this fact include: 1) the short lead times demanded by mattress retailers, 2) the limited inventories carried by retailers, 3) the customized nature of each retailer's product lines, 4) high shipping costs, 5) the relatively low direct labor content in mattresses, and 6) strong brand recognition. We believe that several important demographic factors are helping to support the bedding industry. In particular, the growth of the aging and affluent segment of the population has a significant impact on the bedding industry. The increasing size of homes and growth in the number of vacation and second homes also play major roles in the demand for bedding in the United States. These trends have been a factor in the size and average selling prices of mattresses being sold in the United States. According to ISPA, while wholesale sales of bedding increased 4.7% in 2006, the number of units sold decreased by 1.4%. Premium and luxury mattresses have been the fastest growing category of bedding in recent years. While a majority of bedding sales is traditional innerspring bedding, several specialty bedding producers (primarily foam and air-adjustable mattresses) have recorded significant sales gains in recent years. According to industry statistics, specialty bedding producers, which produce mattresses that do not use inner spring construction, grew their sales by 18.6% in 2006. The specialty bedding segment has provided new growth opportunities for bedding producers and those companies that supply components, including fabric, to them. 6 Other key trends in the bedding industry include: o Consumers have become increasingly aware of and are concerned with the health benefits of better sleep. This has caused an increased focus on the quality of bedding products and an apparent willingness on the part of consumers to pay more for bedding. The average selling price of mattress sets has increased in recent years, and the fastest growing category of bedding products is premium priced mattresses. o Over the past several years, the bedding industry has completed a transition to selling "one-sided" mattresses versus "two-sided" mattresses, which had been the industry norm for many years. All of the four largest bedding manufacturers and most others have converted their product lines to the sale of one-sided mattresses. Since a one-sided mattress uses approximately 30% less mattress ticking, overall industry demand for mattress ticking has been significantly reduced by this transition within the bedding industry. o Mattress manufacturers are using common SKU's and less expensive fabric for borders, which is the ticking that goes around the side of the mattresses and box springs. Virtually all of these border fabrics are woven damask ticking of the type manufactured by the company, and this trend has caused significant pricing pressures in this category of mattress fabric. o The production of flame-resistant materials for bedding is an increasingly important issue for bedding manufacturers. The State of California's open flame mattress flammability standard became effective in 2006, and a national standard for flame resistance in bedding has now been established, becoming effective July 1, 2007. o There is increasing popularity of knitted mattress tickings, as opposed to woven and printed tickings. Knitted ticking was initially used primarily on premium mattresses, but these products are now being placed increasingly on mattresses at mid-range retail price points. Knitted ticking is typically used on the top panel of a mattress, while woven ticking remains the predominant fabric on the borders or sides of mattress sets. Overview of Residential Furniture Industry The residential furniture industry is a mature industry, with long-term growth rates generally close to the overall growth rate of the U.S. economy. According to the American Home Furnishings Alliance (AHFA), a trade association, the U.S. residential furniture industry has grown from $13.6 billion in residential furniture wholesale shipments in 1986 to $27.7 billion in 2006. During the last six years, however, the residential furniture industry has been affected by slow economic conditions, and more substantially by a structural shift to offshore sourcing, primarily from China, which has led to deflation in retail furniture prices. Key trends and issues facing the residential furniture industry include: o The sourcing of components and fully assembled furniture from overseas continues to play a major role in the residential furniture industry, with sales of imported furniture growing at a much faster rate than the overall industry. According to Furniture/Today, an industry trade publication, imports of residential furniture into the U.S. grew 7 % to $22 billion in 2006, following an increase of 11% from 2004 to 2005. By far, the largest source for these imports continues to be China, which now accounts for approximately 55% of total U.S. furniture imports. In past years, a large majority of furniture imports from China were wooden "casegoods," but there has been significant recent growth in imports of upholstered furniture components, including upholstery fabric and "cut and sew kits" for furniture covers. This trend has been especially strong for leather furniture, and it now extends to other coverings, including microdenier suedes and the more traditional types of fabrics manufactured by the company. 7 o Imports of upholstery fabric, both in roll and in "kit" form, have increased rapidly in recent years. An industry trade publication reports that upholstery fabric imports from China tripled in 2006. Fabrics entering the U.S. from China and other low labor cost countries are resulting in increased price competition in the upholstery fabric and upholstered furniture markets. o Leather and suede upholstered furniture has been gaining market share over the last ten years. This trend has increased over the last five years in large part because selling prices of leather furniture have been declining significantly over this time period. We believe, however, that the rate of increase appears to be leveling off and this trend may be near its peak. o The residential furniture industry has been consolidating at the manufacturing level for several years. The result of this trend is fewer, but larger, customers for marketers of upholstery fabrics. o In recent years, several of the nation's larger furniture manufacturers have opened retail outlets of their own. As top retailers shift floor space to private label imports, manufacturers are focused on distributing their own products. In addition, furniture marketing by "lifestyle" retailers has increased, which has increased the number of retail outlets for residential furniture but has also increased the reliance on private brands or private labels. o The company believes that demographic trends support the outlook for long-term growth in the U.S. residential furniture. In particular, "baby boomers" (people born between 1946 to 1964) are reaching their highest earning power and are the most likely group to upgrade their home decor. In addition, many of these individuals are purchasing vacation and second homes, as evidenced by the increasing number of such homes in the U.S. Additionally, the children of the "baby boomers" are entering their college years and are expected to drive the next wave of household formation in the U.S. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the home ownership rate was 68.9% as of the end of calendar 2006, and the average size of homes in the U.S. continues to increase, further driving purchases of furniture. Overview of Commercial Furniture Industry The market for commercial furniture - furniture used in offices and other institutional settings - grew approximately 7.4% from 2005 to 2006, following a 12.7% increase the previous year. Growth during the past three years represents a reversal of a significant decline that had occurred over the three years prior to those. The commercial furniture industry declined significantly from 2001 through 2003, reflecting economic trends affecting businesses, which are the ultimate customers in this industry. According to the Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturer's Association (BIFMA), a trade association, the commercial furniture market in the U.S. totaled approximately $10.8 billion in 2006 in wholesale shipments by manufacturers. Although higher than 2005, this total still represents a significant decrease from the industry's peak of $13.3 billion in 2000. 8 Products As described above, our products include mattress fabrics and upholstery fabrics, which are the company's identified operating segments. Mattress Fabrics Segment Mattress fabrics segment sales constituted 43% of sales in fiscal 2007, and 36% in fiscal 2006. The company has emphasized fabrics that have broad appeal at prices generally ranging from $1.35 to $7.50 per yard. The average selling prices for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $2.35, $2.26, and $2.33, respectively. Upholstery Fabrics Segment Upholstery fabrics segment sales totaled 57% of sales for fiscal 2007, and 64% in fiscal 2006. The company has emphasized fabrics that have broad appeal at "good" and "better" prices, generally ranging from $2.75 to $8.00 per yard. The average selling prices for fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $4.18, $4.22, and $4.19, respectively. We market products in all categories of fabric that manufacturers currently use for bedding and furniture. The following table indicates the product lines within each segment, and a brief description of their characteristics. Culp Fabric Categories by Segment --------------------------------- Mattress Fabrics - ---------------- Woven jacquards Florals and other intricate designs. Woven on complex looms using a variety of synthetic and natural yarns. Prints Variety of designs produced economically by screen printing onto a variety of base fabrics, including jacquards, knits, poly/cotton sheeting and non-wovens. Knitted Ticking Floral and other intricate designs produced on special-width circular machines utilizing a variety of synthetic and natural yarns. Knitted ticking has inherent stretching properties and spongy softness, and conforms well with layered foam packages. Upholstery Fabrics - ------------------ Woven jacquards Elaborate, complex designs such as florals and tapestries in traditional, transitional and contemporary styles. Woven on intricate looms using a wide variety of synthetic and natural yarns. Woven dobbies Fabrics that use straight lines to produce geometric designs such as plaids, stripes and solids in traditional and country styles. Woven on less complicated looms using a variety of weaving constructions and primarily synthetic yarns. Velvets Soft fabrics with a plush feel. Produced with synthetic yarns, either by weaving or by "tufting" yarn into a base fabric. Basic designs such as plaids in both traditional and contemporary styles. Suede fabrics Fabrics woven or knitted using microdenier polyester yarns, which are piece dyed and finished, usually by sanding. The fabrics are typically plain or small jacquard designs, with some being printed. These are sometimes referred to as microdenier suedes, and some are "leather look" fabrics. 9 Manufacturing and Sourcing Mattress Fabrics Segment - ------------------------ The mattress fabrics segment operates two manufacturing plants, located in Stokesdale and St. Jerome, Quebec, Canada. Over the past three fiscal years, we made capital expenditures of approximately $11.0 million to consolidate all of our production of woven jacquards, or damask ticking, to these two plants and to modernize the equipment in these facilities. The result has been an increase in manufacturing efficiency and a substantial reduction in operating costs. With this new manufacturing configuration, jacquard ticking is woven at both ticking plants, and printed ticking is produced at the Stokesdale facility. Most finishing and inspection processes for mattress fabrics are conducted at the Stokesdale plant. In addition to the mattress fabrics we manufacture, the company has important supply arrangements in place that allow us to source mattress ticking from strategic suppliers. A sourcing arrangement with a supplier that has established a manufacturing plant in North Carolina near our U.S. distribution facility allows us to source knitted ticking based on designs created by Culp designers. In addition, a portion of our woven jacquard ticking is obtained from a supplier located in Turkey, based on designs created by Culp designers, and we are now sourcing certain specialty ticking products (such as suedes and embroidered fabrics) through our China platform. Upholstery Fabrics Segment - -------------------------- We currently operate one upholstery manufacturing facility in the U.S. and four in China. During fiscal 2007, we closed our Graham upholstery plant and our Lincolnton yarn plant in a continuation of our efforts to consolidate U.S. upholstery manufacturing assets. Some of the jacquard and dobby production formerly housed at Graham was moved to our Anderson plant, which also produces velvet upholstery fabrics, and our Shanghai, China plants. Other fabric production from the Graham plant was outsourced to third party contract weavers. Our four upholstery manufacturing facilities in China are all located within the same industrial park near Shanghai. At these plants, we apply strategic value-added finishing processes to fabrics sourced from a limited number of strategic suppliers in China, and we inspect sourced fabric there as well. In addition, the Shanghai operations include a facility where sourced fabric is cut and sewn to provide "kits" that are designed to be placed on specific furniture frames designated by our customers, and we have also begun production of velvet upholstery fabrics at our China facilities. A large portion of the upholstery fabrics segment's products, as well as certain elements of our production processes, are now being sourced from outside suppliers. The development of our facilities in China has provided a base from which to access a variety of products, including some fabrics (such as microdenier suedes) that are not produced anywhere within the U.S. We have found opportunities to develop significant relationships with key overseas suppliers that allow us to source products on a very cost effective basis while at the same time limiting our investment of capital in manufacturing assets. The company sources unfinished and finished fabrics from a limited number of strategic suppliers in China who are willing to work with the company to commit significant capacity to our needs while working with our product development team to meet the demands of our customers. We also source a substantial portion of our yarns, both for U.S. and China upholstery operations, through our China facilities. During fiscal 2007, the upholstery fabrics segment completed the move to outsourcing its U.S. yarn production, allowing us to close our last remaining yarn production plant. All of our yarn for upholstery fabric production is now obtained from third party sources. In the past two years, we have also outsourced our yarn extrusion and U.S. decorative fabric finishing operations, allowing us to obtain those services on a variable basis at a lower unit cost from outside suppliers. As these developments have proceeded, we have reduced the carrying value of our fixed assets committed to U.S. upholstery fabric manufacturing from $32.5 million at the end of fiscal 2005 to $3.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007. 10 Product Design and Styling Consumer tastes and preferences related to bedding and upholstered furniture change over time. The use of new fabrics and designs remains an important consideration for manufacturers to distinguish their products at retail and to capitalize on changes in preferred colors, patterns and textures. Culp's success is largely dependent on our ability to market fabrics with appealing designs and patterns. The process of developing new designs involves maintaining an awareness of broad fashion and color trends both in the United States and internationally. The company has developed an upholstery design and product development team (with staff located in the U.S. and in China) that searches continually for new ideas and for the best sources of raw materials, yarns and fabrics, both domestic and international. The team then develops product offerings using these ideas and materials, taking both fashion trends and cost considerations into account, to offer products designed to meet the needs of furniture manufacturers and ultimately the desires of consumers. Upholstery fabric designs are introduced at major fabric trade conferences that occur twice a year in the United States (June and December). Mattress ticking designs are introduced, once annually, during the summer to fall time frame. Additionally, we work closely with our customers, throughout the year, on new design introductions. Distribution Mattress Fabrics Segment - ------------------------ All of the company's shipments of mattress fabrics originate from our manufacturing facility in Stokesdale. Through arrangements with major customers and in accordance with industry practice, we maintain a significant inventory of mattress fabrics at our distribution facility in Stokesdale ("make to stock"), so that products may be shipped to customers with short lead times and on a "just in time" basis. Upholstery Fabrics Segment - -------------------------- The majority of our upholstery fabrics are marketed on a "make to order" basis and are shipped directly from our distribution facilities in Burlington and Shanghai, China. In addition, an inventory comprising a limited number of fabric patterns is held at our distribution facilities in Burlington and Shanghai, China, and a third party facility in Tupelo from which our customers can obtain fabrics on a "purchase from stock" basis through a program known as "Culp Express." Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Mattress Fabrics Segment - ------------------------ Raw materials account for approximately 70% of mattress ticking production costs. The mattress fabrics segment purchases synthetic yarns (polypropylene, polyester and rayon), rayon staple fiber, certain greige (unfinished) goods, latex adhesives, laminates, dyes and other chemicals. Most of these materials are available from several suppliers, and prices fluctuate based on supply and demand, the general rate of inflation, and particularly on the price of petrochemical products. Much of the rayon yarn used to produce mattress fabric is spun at our Canadian facility. The mattress fabrics segment has generally not had significant difficulty in obtaining raw materials. 11 Upholstery Fabrics Segment - -------------------------- Raw materials account for approximately 50%-60% of upholstery fabric manufacturing costs for products the Company manufactures. This segment purchases synthetic yarns (polypropylene, polyester, acrylic and rayon), acrylic staple fiber, latex adhesives, dyes and other chemicals from various suppliers. The upholstery fabric segment has now outsourced all of its yarn requirements, and thus it has become more dependent upon suppliers for components yarn. In addition, we have outsourced a number of our U.S. upholstery fabric manufacturing services to suppliers, such as extrusion of yarn and upholstery fabric finishing. Most recently, we have outsourced a portion of our decorative upholstery fabric weaving, as we wind down operations at our Graham facility. Although U.S produced fabrics are a decreasing portion of our upholstery business, increased reliance by both our U.S. and China upholstery operations on outside suppliers for basic production needs such as base fabrics, yarns, and finishing services has caused the upholstery fabrics segment to become more vulnerable to price increases, delays, or production interruptions caused by problems within businesses that we do not control. Both Segments - ------------- Many of our basic raw materials are petrochemical products or are produced from such products. For this reason, our material costs are especially sensitive to changes in prices for petrochemicals and the underlying price of oil. Recent increases in market prices for oil have caused significant increases in the raw materials costs of both of our segments. In addition, the financial condition and performance of a number of U.S.-based yarn suppliers has been severely impacted by the reductions in the overall size of the U.S. textile industry over the last several years. These conditions have increased the risk of business failures or further consolidations among the suppliers to the North American-based portions of our business. We expect this situation to cause additional disruptions and pricing pressures in our supply of certain raw materials, yarns, and textile services obtained in the U.S. as overall demand for textiles produced in the U.S. declines. Seasonality Mattress Fabrics Segment - ------------------------ The mattress fabrics business and the bedding industry in general are slightly seasonal, with sales being the highest in late spring and late summer, with another peak in mid-winter. Upholstery Fabrics Segment - -------------------------- The upholstery fabrics business is somewhat seasonal, with increased sales during our second and fourth fiscal quarters. This seasonality results from one-week closings of our manufacturing facilities, and the facilities of most of our customers in the United States, during our first and third fiscal quarters for the holiday weeks of July 4th and Christmas. This effect is becoming less pronounced as a larger portion of our fabrics are produced or sold in locations outside the United States. 12 Competition Competition for the company's products is high and is based primarily on price, design, quality, timing of delivery and service. Mattress Fabrics Segment - ------------------------ The mattress fabrics market is concentrated in a few relatively large suppliers. We believe our principal mattress ticking competitors are Bekaert Textiles B.V. and Blumenthal Print Works, Inc., and several smaller companies producing knitted and other ticking. Upholstery Fabrics Segment - -------------------------- In the upholstery fabric market, we compete against a large number of companies, ranging from a few large manufacturers comparable in size to the company to small producers, and a growing number of "converters" of fabrics (companies who buy and re-sell, but do not manufacture fabrics). We believe our principal upholstery fabric competitors are Richloom Fabrics, Merrimack Fabrics and Morgan Fabrics, and Specialty Textile, Inc. (or STI). Until approximately six years ago, overseas producers of upholstery fabric had not historically been a source of significant competition for the company. Recent trends, however, have shown significant increased competition in U.S. markets by foreign producers of upholstery fabric, furniture components and finished upholstery furniture, as well as increased sales in the U.S. of leather furniture produced overseas (which competes with upholstered furniture for market share). Industry sources report that imports of upholstery fabric from China tripled during 2006. Foreign manufacturers often are able to produce upholstery fabric and other components of furniture with significantly lower raw material and production costs (especially labor) than those of our U.S. operations and other U.S.-based manufacturers. We compete with lower cost foreign goods on the basis of design, quality, reliability and speed of delivery. In addition, as discussed above, the company has established operations in China to facilitate the sourcing and of goods produced in China. The trend in the upholstery fabrics industry to greater overseas competition and the entry of more converters has caused the upholstery fabrics industry to become substantially more fragmented in recent years, with lower barriers to entry. This has resulted in a larger number of competitors selling upholstery fabrics, with an increase in competition based on price. Environmental and Other Regulations We are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") and federal and state environmental laws, as well as similar laws governing our manufacturing facilities in China and Canada. We periodically review our compliance with these laws and regulations in an attempt to minimize the risk of violations. Our operations involve a variety of materials and processes that are subject to environmental regulation. Under current law, environmental liability can arise from previously owned properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as from properties currently owned and leased by the company. Environmental liabilities can also be asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. In addition, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA"), and analogous state statutes, liability can be imposed for the disposal of waste at sites targeted for cleanup by federal and state regulatory authorities. Liability under CERCLA is strict as well as joint and several. 13 We are periodically involved in environmental claims or litigation and requests for information from environmental regulators. Each of these matters is carefully evaluated, and the company provides for environmental matters based on information presently available. Based on this information, we do not believe that environmental matters will have a material adverse effect on either the company's financial condition or results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that the costs associated with environmental matters will not increase in the future. Employees As of April 29, 2007, we had 1,140 employees, compared to 1,283 at the end of fiscal 2006. The number of employees has been reduced substantially over the past several years in connection with our restructuring initiatives and efforts to reduce U.S. upholstery fabrics manufacturing costs, as well as initiatives to outsource certain operations. The number of employees located in the U.S. has been reduced even more dramatically, while the number of employees in China has increased (see table below). The hourly employees at our manufacturing facility in Canada (approximately 17% of the company's workforce) are represented by a local, unaffiliated union. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees expires on February 1, 2008. We are not aware of any efforts to organize any more of our employees, and we believe our relations with our employees are good. The following table illustrates the changes in the location of our workforce and number of employees, as of year-end, over the past five years. Number of Employees ---------------------------------------------------------------- Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 ------------ ----------- ----------- ----------- ------------ Mattress Fabrics Segment 361 351 372 362 387 ---------------------------------------------------------------- Upholstery Fabrics Segment United States (1) 297 659 1,404 1,915 2,100 China 479 270 109 40 0 ---------------------------------------------------------------- Total Upholstery Fabrics Segment 776 929 1,513 1,955 2,100 ---------------------------------------------------------------- Unallocated corporate 3 3 3 3 3 ---------------------------------------------------------------- Total 1,140 1,283 1,888 2,320 2,490 ---------------------------------------------------------------- (1) As of July 19, 2007, there were approximately 260 employees. Customers and Sales Mattress Fabrics Segment - ------------------------ Major customers for our mattress fabrics include the leading bedding manufacturers: Sealy, Serta (National Bedding), and Simmons. The loss of one or more of these customers would have a material adverse effect on the company. Our mattress fabrics customers also include many small and medium-size bedding manufacturers. 14 Upholstery Fabrics Segment - -------------------------- Our major customers for upholstery fabrics are leading manufacturers of upholstered furniture, including Ashley, Bassett, Berkline/Benchcraft, Best Home Furnishings, Flexsteel, Furniture Brands International (Broyhill, Thomasville, and Lane), Klaussner Furniture and La-Z-Boy (La-Z-Boy Residential, Bauhaus, and England). Major customers for the company's fabrics for commercial furniture include HON Industries and Global Upholstery. Our largest customer in the upholstery fabrics segment is La-Z-Boy Incorporated, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on the company. Our sales to La-Z-Boy accounted for approximately 11% of the company's total net sales in fiscal 2007. Patrick H. Norton, the recently retired Chairman of La-Z-Boy, served on our board of directors until September 2006. The following table sets forth the company's net sales by geographic area by amount and percentage of total net sales for the three most recent fiscal years. Net Sales by Geographic Area ---------------------------- (dollars in thousands) Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2005 ------------------------ ----------------------- ------------------------ United States $197,748 78.9% $213,552 81.7% $254,249 88.7% ------------ ----------- ----------- ----------- ------------- ---------- North America (Excluding USA) 17,310 6.9 18,944 7.3 22,503 7.9 Far East and Asia 32,683 13.1 28,104 10.8 8,690 3.0 All other areas 2,792 1.1 501 0.2 1,056 0.4 ------------ ----------- ----------- ----------- ------------- ---------- Subtotal (International) 52,785 21.1 47,549 18.3 32,249 11.3 ------------ ----------- ----------- ----------- ------------- ---------- Total $250,533 100.0% $261,101 100.0% $286,498 100.0% ============ =========== =========== =========== ============= ========== For additional segment information, see note 18 in the consolidated financial statements. Backlog Mattress Fabrics Segment - ------------------------ The backlog for mattress ticking is not a reliable predictor of future shipments because the majority of sales are on a just-in-time basis. Upholstery Fabrics Segment - -------------------------- Although it is difficult to predict the amount of backlog that is "firm," we have reported the portion of the upholstery fabric backlog from customers with confirmed shipping dates within five weeks of the end of the fiscal year. On April 29, 2007, the portion of the upholstery fabric backlog with confirmed shipping dates prior to June 3, 2007 was $10.9 million, all of which are expected to be filled early during fiscal 2008, as compared to $14.8 million as of the end of fiscal 2006 (for confirmed shipping dates prior to June 4, 2006). 15 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties. In addition to the matters described above under "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information," set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause a material adverse change in our results of operations or financial condition. Restructuring initiatives create short-term costs that may not be offset by increased savings or efficiencies. Over the past several years, we have undertaken significant restructuring activities, which have involved closing manufacturing plants, realigning manufacturing assets, and changes in product strategy. These actions are intended to lower manufacturing costs and increase efficiency, but they involve significant costs, including the write-off or write-down of assets, severance costs for terminated employees, contract termination costs, equipment moving costs, and similar charges. These charges have caused a decrease in earnings in the short-term. In addition, during the time that restructuring activities are underway, manufacturing inefficiencies are caused by moving equipment, realignment of assets, personnel changes, and by the consolidation process for certain functions. Unanticipated difficulties in restructuring activities or delays in accomplishing our goals could cause the costs of our restructuring initiatives to be greater than anticipated and the results achieved to be significantly lower, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales have been declining in the upholstery fabrics segment. We may not be able to restore the upholstery fabrics segment to consistent profitability. In that segment, sales are down significantly, and they have been declining rapidly for U.S. produced fabrics. We have undertaken a number of significant restructuring actions in recent years to address our profitability, including (i) closing a number of U.S. manufacturing facilities, (ii) establishing facilities in China to take advantage of a lower cost environment and greater product diversity, and (iii) outsourcing certain production functions in the U.S., including yarn production, finishing of decorative fabrics, and some weaving. Successful completion of our restructuring plans depends on a number of variables, including our ability to consolidate certain functions, manage manufacturing processes with lower direct involvement, managing a longer supply chain, and similar issues. Current market conditions in the furniture industry are weak, and our sales of upholstery continue to decline. There is no assurance that we will be able to manage our restructuring activities successfully or restore the upholstery fabrics segment consistent to profitability. Increased reliance on offshore operations and foreign sources of products or raw materials increases the likelihood of disruptions to our supply chain or our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. During recent years, we have expanded our operations in China, and in addition we have been purchasing an increasing share of our products and raw materials from offshore sources. At the same time, our domestic manufacturing capacity for the upholstery fabrics segment has been greatly reduced. These changes have caused the company to place greater reliance on a much longer supply chain and on a larger number of suppliers that we do not control, which are inherently subject to greater risks of delay or disruption. In addition, operations and sourcing in foreign areas are subject to the risk of changing local governmental rules, taxes, changes in import rules or customs, potential political unrest, or other threats that could disrupt or increase the costs of operating in foreign areas or sourcing products overseas. Also, changes in relative values of currencies could increase our costs. Any of the risks associated with foreign operations and sources could cause unanticipated increases in operating costs or disruptions in business, which could negatively impact our ultimate financial results. 16 We may have difficulty managing the outsourcing arrangements increasingly being used by the company for products and services. The company is relying more on outside sources for various products and services, including yarn and other raw materials, greige (unfinished) fabrics, finished fabrics, and services such as weaving and finishing. Increased reliance on outsourcing lowers our capital investment and fixed costs, but it decreases the amount of control that we have over certain elements of our production capacity. Interruptions in our ability to obtain raw materials, other required products or services from our outside suppliers on a timely and cost effective basis, especially if alternative suppliers cannot be immediately obtained, could disrupt our production and damage our financial results. Further write-offs or write-downs of segment assets would result in a decrease in our earnings. The company has long-lived assets, consisting mainly of property, plant and equipment. Accounting rules require that these assets be tested for impairment of their valuation at least annually, as well as upon the occurrence of certain events. When assets are taken out of service, which has occurred recently on several occasions in connection with our restructuring activities, they must be tested for impairment, which can result in significant write-downs in the value of those assets. Restructuring activities and other tests for impairment have resulted and could in the future result in the write-down of a portion of our long-lived assets and a corresponding reduction in earnings and net worth. In fiscal 2007, the company experienced asset write-downs of approximately $1.5 million, all in the upholstery fabrics segment. In addition we reported a deferred income tax asset of $31.1 million as of April 29, 2007. The valuation of this asset must be tested on a periodic basis against the likelihood of realizing its full value, and our continued ability to carry this asset at its full value depends upon our ability to generate taxable income in the future attributable to U.S. operations. Changes in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could increase our costs or cause production delays and sales interruptions, which would result in decreased earnings. We depend upon outside suppliers for most of our raw material needs, and increasingly we rely upon outside suppliers for component materials such as yarn and unfinished fabrics, as well as for certain services such as finishing and weaving. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of these goods and services could have a negative effect on our production costs and ability to meet the demands of our customers, which would affect our ability to generate sales and earnings. In many cases, we are not able to pass through increased costs of raw materials or increased production costs to our customers through price increases. In particular, many of our basic raw materials are petrochemical products or are produced from such products. For this reason, our material costs are especially sensitive to changes in prices for petrochemicals and the underlying price of oil. Increases in prices for oil, petrochemical products or other raw materials and services provided by outside suppliers could significantly increase our costs and negatively affect earnings. Increases in energy costs would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect earnings. Higher prices for electricity, natural gas and fuel increase our production and shipping costs. A significant shortage, increased prices, or interruptions in the availability of these energy sources would increase the costs of producing and delivering products to our customers, and would be likely to adversely affect our earnings. In many cases, we are not able to pass along the full extent of increases in our production costs to customers through price increases. During fiscal 2007, energy prices increased significantly, in part due to increases in the price of oil and other petrochemical products. Although some price increases were implemented to offset the effect of these increased costs, we were not able to fully recoup these costs, and operating margins were negatively affected. Further increases in energy costs could have a negative effect on our earnings. 17 Business difficulties or failures of large customers could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. The company currently has several customers that account for a substantial portion of its sales. In the mattress fabric segment, several large bedding manufacturers have large market shares and comprise a significant portion of our mattress fabric sales. In the upholstery fabrics segment, La-Z-Boy Inc. accounted for 11% of consolidated net sales during fiscal 2007, and several other large furniture manufacturers comprised a significant portion of sales. A business failure or other significant financial difficulty by one or more of our major customers could cause a significant loss in sales, an adverse effect on our earnings, and collection of our trade accounts receivable. If we are unable to manage our cash effectively, we will not have funds available to repay debt and to maintain the flexibility necessary for successful operation of our business. Our ability to meet our cash obligations depends on our operating cash flow, access to trade credit, and our ability to borrow under our debt agreements. In addition to the cash needs of operating our business, we have substantial debt repayments that are due over the next several years on our unsecured senior notes (see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). During fiscal 2006 and 2007, in spite of incurring losses, we were able to generate substantial cash flow through reductions of working capital. Our ability to generate cash flow going forward will rely to a heavier degree on our ability to generate profits from our business, and we have not been able to generate earnings on a consistent basis in recent quarters. If we are not able to generate cash during the coming year, we may not be able to provide the funds needed to operate and maintain our business or to make payments on our debt as they become due. Further loss of market share due to competition would result in further declines in sales and could result in additional losses or decreases in earnings. Our business is highly competitive, and in particular the upholstery fabric industry is fragmented and is experiencing an increase in the number of competitors. As a result, we face significant competition from a large number of competitors, both foreign and domestic. We compete with many other manufacturers of fabric, as well as converters who source fabrics from various producers and market them to manufacturers of furniture and bedding. In many cases, these fabrics are sourced from foreign suppliers who have a lower cost structure than the company. The highly competitive nature of our business means we are constantly subject to the risk of losing market share. Our sales have decreased significantly over the past five years due in part to the increased number of competitors in the marketplace, especially foreign sources of fabric. As a result of increased competition, there have been deflationary pressures on the prices for many of our products, which makes it more difficult to pass along increased operating costs such as raw materials, energy or labor in the form of price increases and puts downward pressure on our profit margins. Also, the large number of competitors and wide range of product offerings in our business can make it more difficult to differentiate our products through design, styling, finish and other techniques. If we fail to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends, our sales and earnings may decline. 18 Demand for various types of upholstery fabrics and mattress coverings change over time due to fashion trends and changing consumer tastes for furniture and bedding. Our success in marketing our fabrics depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to fashion trends in home furnishings. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our sales of these products may decline. In addition, incorrect projections about the demand for certain products could cause the accumulation of excess raw material or finished goods inventory, which could lead to inventory write-downs and further decreases in earnings. An economic downturn could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Overall demand for our products depends upon consumer demand for furniture and bedding, which is subject to variations in the general economy. Because purchases of furniture or bedding are discretionary purchases for most individuals and businesses, demand for these products is sometimes more easily influenced by economic trends than demand for other products. Economic downturns can affect consumer spending habits and demand for home furnishings, which reduces the demand for our products and therefore could cause a decrease in our sales and earnings. We are subject to litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact our sales and earnings. We are, and in the future may be, a party to legal proceedings and claims, including environmental matters, product liability and employment disputes, some of which claim significant damages. We face the continual business risk of exposure to claims that our business operations have caused personal injury or property damage. We maintain insurance against product liability claims and in some cases have indemnification agreements with regard to environmental claims, but there can be no assurance that these arrangements will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that such arrangements will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, there can be no assurance that claims against the company will not have a material adverse impact on our earnings or financial condition. We are also subject to various laws and regulations in our business, including those relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment. We could incur substantial costs as a result of noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws or other regulations. We must comply with a number of governmental regulations applicable to our business, and changes in those regulations could adversely affect our business. Our products and raw materials are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the United States by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities. In addition, other governments and agencies in other jurisdictions regulate the manufacture, sale and distribution of our products and raw materials. For example, standards for flame resistance of fabrics have been recently adopted in the state of California, and additional standards are applicable on a nationwide basis beginning July 1, 2007. Also, rules and restrictions regarding the importation of fabrics and other materials, including custom duties, quotas and other regulations, are continually changing. Environmental laws, labor laws, tax regulations and other regulations also continually affect our business. All of these rules and regulations can and do change from time to time, which can increase our costs or require us to make changes in our manufacturing processes, product mix, sources of products and raw materials, or distribution. Changes in the rules and regulations applicable to our business may negatively impact our sales and earnings. The company's market capitalization and shareholders equity fell below the level required for continued listing on the New York Stock Exchange in recent years. 19 Our common stock is currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Under the NYSE's current listing standards, we are required to have market capitalization or shareholders equity of more than $75 million to maintain compliance with continued listing standards. The company's market capitalization fell below $75 million during fiscal 2006 and parts of fiscal 2007. Our shareholders' equity was below $75 million at the end of fiscal 2006 and during the first half of fiscal 2007. As a result, the company has been listed during fiscal 2007 as "below compliance" with NYSE listing standards, and we were required to submit a plan regarding our ability to return to and maintain compliance with these standards. If the company is not able to maintain compliance with the NYSE standards, our stock will be delisted from trading on the NYSE, resulting in the need to find another market on which our stock can be listed or causing our stock to cease to be traded on an active market, which could result in a reduction in the liquidity for our stock and a reduction in demand for our stock. As of April 29, 2007, the company's market capitalization over a 30 trading-day period and shareholders' equity exceeded the level required for continued listing on the NYSE. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 