Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this filing before deciding to purchase our common stock. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we may face. We believe that this filing contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to regulatory risks and clinical uncertainties. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to facts that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For further information you are encouraged to review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009. We have experienced operating losses in four of our last five fiscal years, including the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and we may not be able to achieve consistent profitability in the future. For four of the past five fiscal years, including for fiscal 2009, we have experienced losses from continuing operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a net loss of $362,000 and $4,011,000, respectively. Although we have significantly improved our operating results during fiscal 2009, including recording positive net income in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, in the future the Company may not be able to achieve consistent profitability on a quarter by quarter and year over year basis. The Company must remain cash-flow positive. We believe that our expected revenues and customer advances, together with our existing cash balance at December 31, 2009 and the availability under ou working capital line should be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for the next twelve months. In the first quarter of 2009 we initiated an aggressive cost reduction program that includes headcount reductions as well as the elimination of all non-essential discretionary spending such as travel, consulting and marketing programs. As a result of these initiatives and the cost reduction program, the Company was cash-flow positive for the year ended December 31, 2009. However, if we sustain a revenue shortfall that we can't compensate with additional cost cuts, or our current credit facility is withdrawn or not renewed, it is possible that we could face unsustainable liquidity pressures. This concern is accentuated by the fact that current credit markets, coupled with our history of losses, has made it possible that we would not be able to obtain alternative or additional financing. Under these circumstances, it is possible that we could default under our financing agreements, which default could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws and cause our investors to sustain a loss of their investment in our shares. 15 Table of Contents Increased concerns about the financial markets, economic conditions, and corporate profits may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment specific to our industry. Continued or increased concerns about credit markets, consumer confidence, economic conditions, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. In the future, we may experience reduced demand for our products because of the uncertainties in the general economic environment in which our customers and we operate. The on-going tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing, which could result in a decrease in, or deferrals or cancellations of, the sale of our products. Although there have been signs of an improving economy, if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, remain uncertain, deteriorate, or enter into a period with no or flat growth we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment specific to our industry. The failure of any banking institution in which we deposit our funds or the failure of such banking institution to provide services in the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or access to borrowings. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers, as well as pressured the solvency of some financial institutions. Some of these financial institutions, including banks, have had difficulty performing regular services and in some cases have failed or otherwise been largely taken over by governments. If we are unable to access some or all of our cash on deposit, either temporarily or permanently, or are unable to access our Revolving Line of Credit with Webster Bank, it could have a negative impact on our operations, including our reported net income, or our financial position, or both. The occurrence of an event of default under our financing arrangements could result in substantial losses to our stockholders. Both our Revolving Line of Credit and our Convertible Debenture contain events of defaults, which are more fully described in our Form 8-Ks filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2009 with respect to the Revolving Line of Credit and November 20, 2008 with respect to the Convertible Debenture. In addition, the Revolving Line of Credit and Convertible Debenture contain cross default provisions, which provides that an event of default under our Revolving Line of Credit or Convertible Debenture may also trigger an event of default under the other financing agreement. If we were to experience an event of default under our Revolving Line of Credit or our Convertible Debenture, that is not cured or waived within any applicable cure periods, in addition to other remedies that may be available to Webster Bank and GSP, the parties may accelerate the obligations under these financing arrangements and they may exercise their remedies against the secured collateral, which is substantially all of our assets. If an event of default occurs, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay the obligations under these financing arrangements or be able to raise additional funds to make such payments. Failure to repay these financing arrangements could force us to reorganize our debts, possibly in bankruptcy, in which event our common stock could likely become worthless. 16 Table of Contents We face intense competition in many of our markets. Our Microfluidizer product line of high-shear fluid processors has direct competition in its major markets, including its most important markets in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and coatings/chemical industries. The severity of the competition that we confront requires that we continuously invest in research and development in order to keep our product line competitive. Despite such expenditures, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the enhancement challenges posed by our competitors, or that we will be able to create or exploit the kinds of innovations, such as our Microfluidics Reaction Technology, needed to drive future sales. In addition, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies who manufacture and sell fluid processing systems used in particle size reduction, mixing, milling, dispersing, homogenizing, cell disruption and liposomal encapsulation applications. We expect competition to intensify in the fluid processing systems field as technical advances are made and become more widely known, and such increased competition may have a material adverse effect upon our business. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a technologically superior product line. Rapid technological development by us or others may result in our products or technologies becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses we incur in connection with their development. Products offered by us could be made obsolete by less expensive or more effective technologies or may never achieve market acceptance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to make the enhancements to our technology successful in the enhancement, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of any new technologies, products or product innovations, or develop and introduce, in a timely manner, innovations to our existing technologies or products that satisfy our customers' needs or achieve market acceptance to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies and products of our competitors. If we fail to retain key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenue or increased costs. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time upon short notice. The loss of the services of any member of the senior management team, including the Chief Executive Officer, Michael Ferrara, Peter Byczko, the Chief Accounting Officer, William Conroy, the Senior Vice President of Operations and Engineering, Thomai Panagiotou, Chief Technology Officer, William Kober Vice President of Sales—The Americas and Western Asia, Xavier Leroy Vice President of Sales—EMEA and South East Asia or any of the managerial, technical or scientific staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit and retain additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the technology area is intense where labor markets are particularly competitive, including Boston, Massachusetts and where demand for personnel with these skills is extremely high and is likely to remain high. As a result, competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in the areas of general management, finance, information technology, engineering and science, and the process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy and expensive, and may become more expensive in the future. If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. We may be unsuccessful in developing new products for existing markets. Our strategy includes developing new products to drive organic growth in our businesses. We may be unsuccessful developing new products that will be well received in existing markets. The products we develop may have less market demand than we anticipate or the demand may be at substantially lower 17 Table of Contents prices than we anticipate. Our competitors may develop new products or technologies that diminish demand for our new products. Our customers may receive decreased funding levels, which may cause their demand for our products to decrease. Our efforts to develop new intellectual property and new products may be costly. Substantial failure in our new product development program could have a material impact on our results of operation and our financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in launching new products or expanding product offerings. We recently announced the launch of our new LV1 Microfluidizer High Shear Fluid Processor on March 17, 2010. We also announced that we intend to develop a series of service offerings to address what we believe is a long-term growth opportunity within our customer base. Although we believe the new product and service offerings will present long-term opportunities for the Company, we may be unsuccessful in identifying and pursuing such opportunities. We may be unsuccessful in introducing the new product and service offerings, expanding current product offerings and commercializing new technologies. In addition, there may be a lack of demand in the present or in the future for the products that we introduce. Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which require significant research and development, and customer testing, all of which are very expensive and time consuming. In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and development programs largely on the development of next generation and novel technology offerings. The research, development, testing and commercialization of our MRT Processor and other novel technology is expensive and time consuming. We are in the early stages of commercialization of our MRT Processor, with certain potential customers testing beta products and receiving consulting services. We may experience significant delays in the testing process. Additionally, there are no assurances that our MRT Processor or any of our other next generation or novel technology offerings will gain market acceptance. The failure to gain or a prolonged delay in market acceptance or an extended testing period may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. We are dependent on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales. A significant portion of our net sales is derived from a relatively small number of customers with sales to three customers accounting for 28% of our revenues in 2009. We expect to continue to depend upon our principal customers for a significant portion of our sales, although our principal customers may not continue to purchase products and services from us at current levels, if at all. The loss of one or more major customers or a change in their buying patterns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on suppliers, vendors and subcontractors. We do not manufacture most of the components contained in our Microfluidizer materials processor equipment, but rather subcontract the manufacture of most components. Based on quality, price, and performance, we have selected certain suppliers, vendors, and subcontractors that provide parts, subassemblies, machining and finishing of components that are assembled by our production staff. It is possible that as a result of the recent economic slowdown or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers, vendors or subcontractors could go out of business, or not ship on open account, or otherwise be unable to supply our needs. Although we have identified alternate sources for parts, components, machining and finishing integral to the manufacture of our products, there can be no assurance that a transition to an alternative source would not entail quality assurance or quality control difficulties, on-time delivery problems, or other transition problems, any or all of which could have an 18 Table of Contents impact on our production of equipment and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Many of our current and potential customers are from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and are subject to risks faced by those industries. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We expect that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will continue to be our major sources of revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as pricing pressures as third-party payers continue challenging the pricing of medical products and services, government regulation, ongoing consolidation and uncertainty of technological change, and to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by companies in these industries. In particular, the biotechnology industry is dependent on raising capital to fund operations. If biotechnology companies are unable to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As it relates to both the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, many companies have significant patents that have expired or are about to expire, which could result in reduced revenues for those companies. If pharmaceutical companies suffer reduced revenues as a result of these patent expirations, they may be unable to purchase our products, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and purchasing patterns of various governments and government agencies. Many of our customers, including universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions, obtain funding for the purchase of products from grants by governments or government agencies. There exists the risk of potential decrease in the level of governmental spending allocated to scientific and medical research, which could substantially reduce or even eliminate these grants. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to decrease, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Lastly, because our Financing was provided by an affiliate of a pharmaceutical company that competes with other pharmaceutical companies, it is possible that the other companies might decide against doing business with us in the future for competitive reasons. If a significant number of pharmaceutical companies were to reduce their purchases of our products for this or any other reason, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. General health care spending patters may also be affected by federal regulation, including the recent health care bills before congress, which may effect research budgets. We have only one manufacturing facility. We have a single manufacturing facility located in Newton, Massachusetts. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of that facility. Whether as a result of a fire, natural disaster, or other cause, any disruption to our manufacturing operations would significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, our business would be injured by any extended interruption of the operations of our manufacturing facility. Further, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur, or may not continue to be available to us. Finally, if we seek to replicate our manufacturing operations at another location, we will face a number of technical as well as financial challenges, which we may not be able to address successfully. 19 Table of Contents We rely on our trade secrets to protect our technology. Our Microfluidizer processor equipment method patent expired on March 13, 2007 and our device patent expired on August 6, 2002. In addition, we have neither sought patent protection for our Microfluidizer processor or our interaction chamber nor trademark protection of our Microfluidizer trade name in any country other than the United States. As such, our proprietary rights are not subject to the protection of patent or trademark laws of foreign countries where our equipment is sold. Although we have made many alterations, improvements and advances to our equipment over the years and continue to make such advancements with such modifications and innovations having been and being treated by us as trade secrets, the lack of our patent protections will expose us to potential competition that would likely have a material adverse effect on us. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and technical means. In the event of a breach of these protections, there can be no assurance that these measures will prove to have been adequate to protect our interests, or that we will have sufficient resources to prosecute or prevail in an action against a third party. We have recently filed patent applications for our MRT Technology. If we are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection or if our patents do not provide protection against competitive products of our MRT Technology, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our MRT Technology. In 1997 we completed development of a novel adaptation of our Microfluidizer processor equipment—a "Multiple Stream High Pressure Mixer/Reactor", commercially designated as the Microfluidizer Mixer/Reactor (MMR). In August 1997, we filed a patent application for the device and its processes with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), and filed a Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) application on May 5, 1998. In July and November, 2000, the USPTO issued us notices of allowances of utility patent claims regarding the MMR and the use thereof. On September 18, 2002, the European Patent Office advised us it would grant our MMR patent substantially as applied for, including our device and process claims. We are in the process of pursuing national entry in France, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. We are currently pursuing our MMR patent application in Canada. We are pursuing patent protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions with respect to proprietary aspects of our MRT Processor. We filed a U.S Patent application for this technology in March 2008 and a Patent Convention Treaty (PCT) in March 2009 and plan to file selected national patents in 2010. We are awaiting responses to these filings. There can be no assurance that (i) any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for our inventions; (ii) any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or (iii) issued patents, or patents that may be issued, will provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Furthermore, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the fields of healthcare and biosciences is still evolving, and our patent rights are subject to this uncertainty. European and United States patent authorities have not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed for health and bioscience patents. Our patent rights on our products therefore might conflict with the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from 20 Table of Contents their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits should they occur. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. We may be subjected to increased government regulation that could affect our ability to sell our products outside of the United States. Although United States governmental restrictions on technology transfer, import, export and customs regulations and other similar local, state or federal regulations, have not had a significant effect on us historically, any future legislation or administrative action restricting our ability to sell our products to certain countries outside the United States could significantly affect our ability to make certain foreign sales. The extent of adverse governmental regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot be accurately predicted. In particular, the USA Patriot Act and other governmental regulations may impose export restrictions on sale of equipment or transfer of technology to certain countries or groups. There can be no assurance that sale of our equipment will not be impacted by any such legislation or designation. Depending upon which countries and sales may be designated for trade restriction such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Also, certain agreements that may be entered into by us involving exclusive license rights may also be subject to national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. Our stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board and our stockholders may have limited liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the NYSE Amex, New York Stock Exchanges or The NASDAQ Stock Market). In general, over the past two years, fewer than 20,000 shares of our common stock have traded on a daily basis. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. The market price of our common stock may have increased volatile and could decline in the future in response to various factors including: •volatility of the financial markets •uncertainty regarding the domestic and foreign economies •technological innovations by competitors or competing technologies •quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuating or failing to meet the expectations of management •conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries •announcement of significant changes in financing or strategic partnerships Our ownership structure includes several investors who own large blocks of common stock or convertible securities whose interests and rights in our company may differ in important respects from those of our other common stock investors. Several investors in the Company own large concentrations of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, making our shares more illiquid than if our ownership structure were more widely distributed. The concentration in the ownership of our common stock and the rights of the holder of our Convertible Debenture and warrants impact the trading liquidity of our common shares, our corporate governance, and the relative economic stake that our common stock and Convertible Debenture and warrants have in the enterprise value of our business. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect 21 Table of Contents your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. The market price of our common stock may be adversely effected should the one large investor convert the Debenture and warrants into common stock or several large investors sell at the same time. Additionally, if the holder of our Convertible Debenture and warrants were to convert and sell such shares or a large stockholder were to sell their shares our stock price may be adversely effected. Our quarterly revenues and stock performance are variable. The timing of orders including completion of our factory acceptance testing can impact the actual shipment date, which will significantly affect quarterly revenues and net income results for particular quarters which may cause increased volatility in both our revenues and stock price. We allow our customers to lease some of our products and those leases may not turn into sales. We sometimes rent our products to our customers prior to or instead of selling a product to a customer. Our products are expensive, and customers frequently want to test out a product's capabilities prior to purchase. We have had reasonable success in converting rentals into subsequent sales of the same or a newer product; however, there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to convert any of our leases into sales. We may be subject to product liability claims from our customers or by persons harmed by our customers' products. We maintain what we deem to be reasonable levels of product liability coverage through insurance policies with a reasonably small deductible. Nonetheless, inasmuch as we sell our equipment to a number of customers who make pharmaceutical preparations and consumer cosmetics, there can be no assurance that if a consumer of end products is injured or dies from such product that a suit by an injured party (or a class of similar situated plaintiffs) will not include us as well as the maker of the drug or cosmetic. Although we may have no control over the manufacture of end-products made on our equipment, we may not be able to bar a plaintiff's claims against all parties whose products and equipment were involved in the manufacturing process under a variety of legal theories of liability. We may be required to present a vigorous and costly defense if we cannot be dismissed from such an action. The cost of such legal defense may significantly impact our cash flow. Our international business operations expose us to a variety of risks. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, shipments outside of North America accounted for approximately 37.4%, 50.1%, and 39.6%, respectively, of our net revenues in those periods. In particular, approximately 5.5%, 12.2%, and 2.7% of our net revenues in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, resulted from sales to Belgium. In addition, approximately 5.5%, 9.8%, and 12.9%, of our net revenues resulted from sales to Japan and Korea in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect that shipments outside of North America will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net product revenues. We attempt to reduce some of our risk related to sales and shipments outside of the United States by requiring that our contracts generally be paid in United States Dollars. Nevertheless, a downturn in the economies of Japan, Korea or Europe might reduce investment in new technology or products while a weakening of foreign currency against the United States Dollar would make our products more expensive, each of which could have a substantial impact on our operating results. In addition, a significant portion of our total net revenue is subject to the risks associated with shipping to foreign markets in general, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; inability to collect receivables, seasonality of our revenue in Europe; changes in tariffs; political and economic instability; risk of terrorism; difficulties in managing distributors and 22 Table of Contents representatives; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas; and natural disasters, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating results. We may experience difficulties in the future in complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 ("Section 404"); and continued implementation and maintenance of internal controls necessary for continued compliance with Section 404 may result in our incurring of additional costs. We are required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We were also required to furnish a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. While we have completed our self-assessment as to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2009, which did not identify material weaknesses in our internal control systems, there can be no assurance that future material weaknesses in our internal control systems will not be identified as a result of changing financial or operating conditions. In addition, although we are currently not required to subject our internal controls to audit by our independent registered public accounting firm until at least our fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, there can be no assurance that an audit of our internal controls will not result in the identification of a material weakness. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, it could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and our ability to run our business effectively and could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting. In the event that it is determined that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, as defined under Section 404, investor confidence in us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported financial results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. If our accounting estimates are not correct, our financial results could be adversely affected. Management judgment and estimates are necessarily required in the application of our Critical Accounting Policies. We discuss these estimates in the subsection entitled Critical Accounting Policies beginning on page 26 included in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report. If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 