Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this filing before deciding to purchase our common stock. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we may face. We believe that this filing contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to regulatory risks and clinical uncertainties. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to facts that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For further information you are encouraged to review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008. We have experienced operating losses from continuing operations in three of our last five fiscal years, including the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and we may not be able to achieve consistent profitability in the future. For three of the past five fiscal years, as well as the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we have experienced losses from continuing operations. During the year ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of $4,011,000 and $1,507,000, respectively. It is anticipated that, even with the expenses changes implemented in first quarter in 2009, the Company will have a net loss in the current fiscal year. The Company must become cash-flow positive prior to exhausting its credit facilities. We have concluded that our existing cash and anticipated credit facilities should be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for the next twelve months. In the first quarter of 2009 we have initiated an aggressive cost reduction program that includes headcount reductions as well as the elimination of all non-essential discretionary spending such as travel, consulting and marketing programs. However, if we sustain a revenue shortfall that we can’t compensate for through additional cost cuts, or our potential credit facility is withdrawn, it is possible that we could face unsustainable liquidity pressures. This concern is accentuated by the fact that current credit markets, coupled with our history of losses, has made it possible that we would not be able to obtain alternative or additional financing. Under these circumstances, it is possible that we could default under our financing agreements, which default could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws and cause our investors to sustain a loss of their investment in our shares. The current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Increased concerns about credit markets, consumer confidence, economic conditions, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. We may experience in the future, reduced demand for our products because of the uncertainty in the general economic environment in which our customers and we operate. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing, which could result in a decrease in, or deferrals or cancellations of, the sale of our products. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment specific to our industry. The failure of any banking institution in which we deposit our funds or the failure of such banking institution to provide services in the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or access to borrowings. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers, as well as pressured the solvency of some financial institutions. Some of these financial institutions, including banks, have had difficulty performing regular services and in some cases have failed or otherwise been largely taken over by governments. If we are unable to access some or all of our cash on deposit, either temporarily or permanently, or are unable to access additional credit, it could have a negative impact on our operations, including our reported net income, or our financial position, or both. The occurrence of an event of default under our financing could result in substantial losses to our stockholders. The $5,000,000 in financing that we received in November, 2008 (the “Financing”) would become immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Financing documents. See “Sales of Unregistered Securities” in Part II, Item 5 below for further discussion of the Financing. See also the Form 8-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 20, 2008 (the “Financing 8-K”) for a full discussion of the events that constitute an Event of Default. Although most of the Events of Default are standard provisions relating to timely payments, accuracy of representations, solvency, and the absence of a change of control, an Event of Default will also occur if our stockholders fail to approve an increase in our authorized shares to a number sufficient to allow the Warrant (defined and discussed under “Sales of Unregistered Securities” in Part II, Item 5) to be exercised in full, which event is entirely beyond the control of management. If any Event of Default occurs, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay the Financing or be able to raise additional funds to make such payment. Failure to repay the Financing could force us to reorganize our debts, possibly in bankruptcy, in which event our common stock could likely become worthless. -8- We face intense competition in many of our markets. Our Microfluidizer product line of high-shear fluid processors has direct competition in its major markets, including its most important markets in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and coatings/chemical industries. The severity of the competition that we confront requires that we continuously invest in research and development in order to keep our product line competitive. Despite such expenditures, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the enhancement challenges posed by our competitors, or that we will be able to create or exploit the kinds of innovations, such as our Microfluidics Reaction Technology, needed to drive future sales. In addition, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies who manufacture and sell fluid processing systems used in particle size reduction, mixing, milling, dispersing, homogenizing, cell disruption and liposomal encapsulation applications. We expect competition to intensify in the fluid processing systems field as technical advances are made and become more widely known, and such increased competition may have a material adverse effect upon our business. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a technologically superior product line. Rapid technological development by us or others may result in our products or technologies becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses we incur in connection with their development. Products offered by us could be made obsolete by less expensive or more effective technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. We may experience uncertain economic trends that adversely impact our business. We may experience in the future reduced demand for our products as a result of the uncertainty in the general economic environment in which our customers and we operate. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment specific to our industry. If economic conditions worsen or if an economic slowdown occurs, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on suppliers, vendors and subcontractors. We do not manufacture most of the components contained in our Microfluidizer materials processor equipment, but rather subcontract the manufacture of most components. Based on quality, price, and performance, we have selected certain suppliers, vendors, and subcontractors that provide parts, subassemblies, machining and finishing of components that are assembled by our production staff. It is possible that, as a result of the current economic slowdown or other reasons, one or more of our suppliers, vendors or subcontractors could go out of business, or not ship on open account, or otherwise be unable to supply our needs. Although we have identified alternate sources for parts, components, machining and finishing integral to the manufacture of our products, there can be no assurance that a transition to an alternative source would not entail quality assurance or quality control difficulties, on-time delivery problems, or other transition problems, any or all of which could have an impact on our production of equipment and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Many of our current and potential customers are from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and are subject to risks faced by those industries. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We expect that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will continue to be one of our major sources of revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as pricing pressures as third-party payers continue challenging the pricing of medical products and services, government regulation, ongoing consolidation and uncertainty of technological change, and to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by companies in these industries. In particular, the biotechnology industry is dependent on raising capital to fund operations. If biotechnology companies are unable to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As it relates to both the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, many companies have significant patents that have expired or are about to expire, which could result in reduced revenues for those companies. If pharmaceutical companies suffer reduced revenues as a result of these patent expirations, they may be unable to purchase our products, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and purchasing patterns of various governments and government agencies. Many of our customers, including universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions, obtain funding for the purchase of products from grants by governments or government agencies. There exists the risk of potential decrease in the level of governmental spending allocated to scientific and medical research, which could substantially reduce or even eliminate these grants. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to decrease, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Lastly, because our Financing was provided by an affiliate of a pharmaceutical company that competes with other pharmaceutical companies, it is possible that the other companies might decide against doing business with us in the future for competitive reasons. If a significant number of pharmaceutical companies were to reduce their purchases of our products for this or any other reason, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have only one manufacturing facility. We have a single manufacturing facility located in Newton, Massachusetts. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of that facility. Whether as a result of a fire, natural disaster, or other cause, any disruption to our manufacturing operations would significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, our business would be injured by any extended interruption of the operations of our manufacturing facility. Further, although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. This insurance may not continue to be available to us. Finally, if we seek to replicate our manufacturing operations at another location, we will face a number of technical as well as financial challenges, which we may not be able to address successfully. We rely on our trade secrets to protect our technology. Our Microfluidizer processor equipment method patent expired on March 13, 2007 and our device patent expired on August 6, 2002. In addition, we have neither sought patent protection for our Microfluidizer processor or our interaction chamber nor trademark protection of our Microfluidizer trade name in any country other than the United States. As such, our proprietary rights are not subject to the protection of patent or trademark laws of foreign countries where our equipment is sold. Although we have made many alterations, improvements and advances to our equipment over the years and continue to make such advancements with such modifications and innovations having been and being treated by us as trade secrets, the lack of our patent protections will expose us to potential competition that would likely have a material adverse effect on us. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and technical means. In the event of a breach of these protections, there can be no assurance that these measures will prove to have been adequate to protect our interests, or that we will have sufficient resources to prosecute or prevail in an action against a third party. -9- We may be subjected to increased government regulation which could affect our ability to sell our products outside of the United States. Although United States governmental restrictions on technology transfer, import, export and customs regulations and other present local, state or federal regulation, have not had a significant effect on us historically, any future legislation or administrative action restricting our ability to sell our products to certain countries outside the United States could significantly affect our ability to make certain foreign sales. The extent of adverse governmental regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot be accurately predicted. In particular, the USA Patriot Act and other governmental regulations may impose export restrictions on sale of equipment or transfer of technology to certain countries or groups. There can be no assurance that sale of our equipment will not be impacted by any such legislation or designation. Depending upon which countries and sales may be designated for trade restriction such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Also, certain agreements that may be entered into by us involving exclusive license rights may also be subject to national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. We rely on our top management and technical personnel. Our continued operation, innovation and growth are to some significant degree reliant on the continued services of our executive officers and leading technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain such management and technical personnel if employment is offered by other companies better able to pay higher compensation, provide more and better benefits, or willing to offer longer term job security by entering into employment contracts with our employees. Further, there can be no assurance that key executive officers and leading technical personnel will not leave our employment or either die or become disabled to an extent that they cannot render their services to us. Though we believe that we can identify and recruit replacement key management and technical personnel, there can be no assurance as to such availability, the length of time required to obtain such replacement management and technical personnel, the salary level that may have to be paid to obtain their respective services, or the impact on operations that may be experienced through the interim absence of such key management and technical personnel. The loss of our top management or leading technical personnel could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board and our stockholders may have limited liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchanges or The NASDAQ Stock Market). In general, over the past two years, fewer than 20,000 shares of our common stock have traded on a daily basis. Our quarterly revenues and stock performance are variable. The timing of orders including completion of our factory acceptance testing can impact the actual shipment date, which will significantly affect quarterly revenues and net income results for particular quarters which may cause increased volatility in both our revenues and stock price. We allow our customers to lease some of our products and those leases may not turn into sales. We sometimes rent our products to our customers prior to or instead of selling a product to a customer. Our products are expensive, and customers frequently want to test out a product’s capabilities prior to purchase. We have had reasonable success in converting rentals into subsequent sales of the same or a newer product; however, there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to convert any of our leases into sales. We may be subject to product liability claims from our customers or by persons harmed by our customers’ products. We maintain what we deem to be reasonable levels of product liability coverage through insurance policies with a reasonably small deductible. Nonetheless, inasmuch as we sell our equipment to a number of customers who make pharmaceutical preparations and consumer cosmetics, there can be no assurance that if a consumer of end products is injured or dies from such product that a suit by an injured party (or a class of similar situated plaintiffs) will not include us as well as the maker of the drug or cosmetic. Although we may have no control over the manufacture of end-products made on our equipment, we may not be able to bar a plaintiff’s claims against all parties whose products and equipment were involved in the manufacturing process under a variety of legal theories of liability. We may be required to present a vigorous and costly defense if we cannot be dismissed from such an action. The cost of such legal defense may significantly impact our cash flow. Our international business operations expose us to a variety of risks. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, shipments outside of North America accounted for approximately 50.1%, 39.6%, and 44.8%, respectively, of our net revenues in those periods. In particular, approximately 12.2%, 2.7%, and 5.5%, of our net revenues in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, resulted from sales to Belgium. In addition, approximately 9.8%, 12.9%, and 18.9%, of our net revenues resulted from sales to Japan and Korea in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that shipments outside of North America will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net product revenues. We attempt to reduce some of our risk related to sales and shipments outside of the United States by requiring that our contracts generally be paid in United States Dollars. Nevertheless, a downturn in the economies of Japan, Korea or Europe might reduce investment in new technology or products while a weakening of foreign currency against the United States Dollar would make our products more expensive, each of which could have a substantial impact on our operating results. In addition, a significant portion of our total net revenue is subject to the risks associated with shipping to foreign markets in general, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; seasonality of our revenue in Europe; changes in tariffs; political and economic instability; risk of terrorism; difficulties in managing distributors and representatives; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas; and natural disasters, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating results. We may experience difficulties in the future in complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 (“Section 404”); and continued implementation and maintenance of internal controls necessary for continued compliance with Section 404 may result in our incurring of additional costs. We are required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We were also required to furnish a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. While we have completed our self-assessment as to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2008, which did not identify material weaknesses in our internal control systems, there can be no assurance that future material weaknesses in our internal control systems will not be identified as a result of changing financial or operating conditions. In addition, although we are currently not required to subject our internal controls to audit by our independent registered public accounting firm until at least our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, there can be no assurance that an audit of our internal controls will not result in the identification of a material weakness. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, it could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and our ability to run our business effectively and could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting. In the event that it is determined that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, as defined under Section 404, investor confidence in us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. -10- Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported financial results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. If our accounting estimates are not correct, our financial results could be adversely affected. Management judgment and estimates are necessarily required in the application of our Critical Accounting Policies beginning on page 31. We discuss these estimates in the subsection entitled Critical Accounting Policies included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual and Quarterly Reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 