Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this filing before deciding to purchase our common stock. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we may face. We believe that this filing contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are subject to regulatory risks and clinical uncertainties. Such statements are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to facts that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For further information you are encouraged to review MFIC Corporation’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006. The Company assumes no continuing obligation to update the information contained in this filing. We face intense competition in many of our markets. Our Microfluidizer product line of high-shear fluid processors has direct competition in its major markets, including its most important markets in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and coatings/chemical industries. In addition, the Company faces, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies who manufacture and sell fluid processing systems used in particle size reduction, mixing, milling, dispersing, homogenizing, cell disruption and liposomal encapsulation applications. The Company expects competition to intensify in the fluid processing systems field as technical advances are made and become more widely known, and such increased competition may have a material adverse effect upon our business. 11 We are subject to significant competition from companies that are pursuing technologies and products that are similar to our technology and products. Our future success will depend in large part on the Company’s ability to maintain a technologically superior product line. Rapid technological development by the Company or others may result in our products or technologies becoming obsolete before the Company recovers the expenses the Company incurs in connection with their development. Products offered by the Company could be made obsolete by less expensive or more effective technologies. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies. We rely on suppliers, vendors and subcontractors. The Company does not manufacture most of the components contained in its Microfluidizer materials processor equipment but rather subcontracts the manufacture of most components. Based on quality, price, and performance, the Company has selected certain suppliers, vendors, and subcontractors that provide parts, subassemblies, machining and finishing of components that are assembled by the Company’s production staff. Although the Company has identified alternate sources for such parts, components, machining and finishing, there can be no assurance that a transition to such alternative sources would not entail quality assurance and quality control difficulties, on-time delivery problems, or other transitional problems, any or all of which could have an impact on the Company’s production of equipment and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our customer base is concentrated, and a substantial portion of our sales are provided by just three customers. Three customers accounted for an aggregate of 32.2% of the Company’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Historically, our largest single customer has been the Japanese distributor of our Microfluidizer processor equipment and spare parts, which accounted for 9.2% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, 19.5% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 20.5% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004. Our next historically largest customer accounted for 15.23% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, 18.9% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 12.8% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004. A third customer is a distributor in Canada who accounted for 7.8% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, 3.2% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 3.11% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004. Although we are unaware of any plans by any of these customers to reduce their business with us, the loss of any one or more of these customers would be highly problematic for us, and would likely cause a material change in our near-term, and possibly long-term, financial prospects. In addition, a reduction or delay in orders from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, 14.4% and 13.6% of the Company’s trade accounts receivable were due from two customers, both of which are long-established customers of the Company and neither of which have presented credit issues in the past. Nevertheless, if either or both of these customers were to default on their obligations to us such default would likely cause a material change in our near-term, and possibly long-term, financial prospects. Many of our current and potential customers are from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and are subject to risks faced by those industries. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We expect that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will continue to be one of our major sources of revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the 12 pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as pricing pressures as third-party payers continue challenging the pricing of medical products and services, government regulation, ongoing consolidation and uncertainty of technological change, and to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by companies in these industries. In particular, the biotechnology industry has been faced with declining market capitalization and a difficult capital-raising and financing environment. If biotechnology companies are unable to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As it relates to both the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, many companies have significant patents that have expired or are about to expire, which could result in reduced revenues for those companies. If pharmaceutical companies suffer reduced revenues as a result of these patent expirations, they may be unable to purchase our products, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and purchasing patterns of various governments and government agencies. Many of our customers, including universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions, obtain funding for the purchase of products from grants by governments or government agencies. There exists the risk of potential decrease in the level of governmental spending allocated to scientific and medical research, which could substantially reduce or even eliminate these grants. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to decrease, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have only one manufacturing facility. The Company has only one manufacturing facility located in Newton, Massachusetts. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of that facility. Whether as a result of a fire, natural disaster, or other cause, any disruption to our manufacturing operations would significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. Although the Company maintains business interruption insurance, our business would be injured by any extended interruption of the operations of our manufacturing facility. Further, although the Company carries property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. This insurance may not continue to be available to the Company. Finally, if the Company seeks to replicate our manufacturing operations at another location, the Company will face a number of technical as well as financial challenges, which the Company may not be able to address successfully. We rely on our trade secrets to protect our technology. The Company’s Microfluidizer processor equipment method patent expired on March 13, 2007 and its device patent expired on August 6, 2002. In addition, the Company has neither sought patent protection for its Microfluidizer interaction chamber nor trademark protection of its Microfluidizer trade name in any country other than the United States. As such, its proprietary rights are not subject to the protection of patent or trademark laws of foreign countries where the Company’s equipment is sold. Although the Company has made many alterations, improvements and advances to its equipment over the years and continues to make such advancements with such modification and innovations having been and being treated by the Company as trade secrets, the lack or limited nature of our patent protections will expose the Company to potential competition that would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. In order to afford additional protection to its intellectual property, in November 2006 the Company adopted a provision as part of its standard terms and conditions of purchase. Such provision is an acknowledgement and agreement by a purchaser of the Company’s merchandise and equipment (the 13 “Equipment”) that certain proprietary intellectual property of the Company, including the design, operation and use of the Equipment’s interaction chamber or reaction chamber constitutes the Company’s trade secret information (the “Trade Secret Information”). Such purchaser agrees that it will not (and will not aid, assist or permit any other person to): (i) tamper with the Equipment, (ii) utilize imaging equipment or other means to reveal the inner structures and/or designs of the Equipment, (iii) attempt to disassemble or reverse engineer the Equipment, including specifically the interaction or reaction chamber, or (iv) otherwise attempt to discover and/or utilize any of the Trade Secret Information. A purchaser is further prohibited from disclosing (or aiding, assisting or permitting third parties to disclose) any information which the purchaser may learn or discover about the materials and methods of construction, design, assembly, functioning, geometries, measurements and tolerances of the internal components of the Equipment. In the event of a violation of any of the above prohibitions, the purchaser has stipulated that it is liable to the Company and/or its subsidiary, Microfluidics Corporation, for any and all actual and potential, direct and indirect, incidental and consequential damages, including, without limitation, resulting lost profits, and all available equitable relief. The Company has made such provision applicable to purchasers, renters and subsidized users of the Equipment (“Users”). Despite the protection afforded by such provision, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to monitor compliance by all Users or that if the Company becomes aware of a violation that it will be able to enforce its rights regarding such violation. To protect its other proprietary rights, the Company relies on a combination of trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and technical means. In the event of a breach of these protections, there can be no assurance that these measures will prove to have been adequate to protect the Company’s interests, or that the Company will have sufficient resources to prosecute or prevail in an action against a third party. The Company maintains confidentiality and non-competition agreements with those parties to whom it discloses non-public technical information relating to its equipment. The Company believes that enforcement of the provisions of such agreements should adequately protect the Company’s proprietary information. However, in the event of a material breach of such agreements, certain of the Company’s valuable intellectual property may be disclosed to third parties (including competitors). In such event, despite provisions for equitable relief and damages in the event of such breaches, the Company may suffer competitively and be materially and negatively impacted as a result of such unauthorized disclosure. We must continue our research and development efforts to maintain our competitiveness. The Company’s research and development efforts are focused on: (i) developing new processing applications for the process industries and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of existing products, and development of new equipment models, and (ii) development of the Multiple-Stream High Pressure Mixer/Reactor (MMR) by: (a) working with customers who assist in the development of the system with both application knowledge and financial support, and (b) internal development program relating to interaction chamber design and creation of a variety nanomaterials. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to meet the enhancement challenges posed by applications of its core Microfluidizer processor business. Likewise there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to design and manufacture systems for its MMR applications that will deliver the desired result for specific applications. The inability to meet the enhancement challenges or design and manufacture systems for its MMR applications may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our ability to continue planned operations is dependent upon access to financing under a credit facility with our commercial lender. The Company’s credit facility is comprised of a revolving line of credit in the maximum principal amount of $1,000,000 and a term loan note in a face amount of $1,000,000 under which the Company 14 currently owed approximately $312,000 at December 31, 2006. Under the terms of the credit facility, the Company is subject to a number of restrictions that impact the Company’s use of funds. The Company is limited in ability to acquire property and pay dividends, and it must maintain certain financial covenants as defined. The Company’s ability to operate is potentially impacted by the Company’s ability to achieve future compliance with the financial covenants of the credit facility. The obligations due the lender are essentially demand obligations and under certain circumstances, including the lender’s determination that the Company’s prospect of payment of all or any part of the obligations due the lender are impaired, the lender may declare a default and accelerate payment of the obligations. Loans under the credit facility are secured by a collateral pledge to the lender of substantially all the assets of the Company and its subsidiary. In the event of a breach of the covenants or events of default under the credit facility there can be no assurance that the Company can obtain a waiver of such breach or default from its lender. Likewise, in the event of that the Company cannot effect a cure or obtain a waiver of a breach or default under the credit facility there can be no assurance either that the lender will not terminate the credit facility or that the Company will be able to obtain alternate financing, or that it can obtain alternate financing on terms that are favorable to the Company. Either event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. Pursuant to its agreements with the lender, the Company may not issue, create or incur additional debt in excess of its obligations to lender, except in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that the Company will have access to sufficient working capital through continued and improving cash flow from sales and ongoing borrowing availability, the latter being subject to the Company’s ability to comply with the covenants and terms of the Company’s loan agreement with its lender. We may be subjected to increased government regulation which could affect our ability to sell our products outside of the United States. Although the Company has not historically been significantly affected by any United States governmental restrictions on technology transfer, import, export and customs regulations and other present local, state or federal regulation, any future legislation or administrative action restricting our ability to sell our products to certain countries outside the United States could significantly affect our ability to make certain foreign sales. The extent of adverse governmental regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot be accurately predicted. In particular, the USA Patriot Act and other governmental regulations may impose export restrictions on sale of equipment or transfer of technology to certain countries or groups. There can be no assurance that sale of the Company’s equipment will not be impacted by any such legislation or designation. Depending upon which countries and sales may be designated for trade restriction such action could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. Also, certain agreements that may be entered into by the Company involving exclusive license rights may also be subject to national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. We rely on our key management and technical personnel. The Company’s continued operation, innovation and growth are to some significant degree reliant on the continued services of its key executive officers and leading technical personnel. The Company does not maintain employment contracts with its key management or leading technical personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain such key management and technical personnel if employment is offered by other companies better able to pay higher compensation, provide more and better benefits, or willing to offer longer term job security by entering into employment contracts with the Company’s employees. Further, there can be no assurance that key executive officers and leading technical personnel will not leave the Company’s employment, or either die or become disabled to an extent that 15 they cannot render their services to the Company. Though the Company believes that it can identify and recruit replacement key management and technical personnel, there can be no assurance as to such availability, the length of time required to obtain such replacement management and technical personnel, the salary level that may have to be paid to obtain their respective services, or the impact on operations that may be experienced through the interim absence of such key management and technical personnel. The loss of key management or leading technical personnel could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board and our stockholders may have limited liquidity. The Company’s common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchanges or The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC). In general, over the past two years, fewer than 100,000 shares of our common stock have traded on a daily basis. Management expects, when and if the Company qualifies, to seek a listing on a national securities exchange, which may increase stockholders liquidity. There is uncertainty that the Company will ever be accepted for a listing on a securities exchange. Our quarterly revenues and stock performance are variable. The timing of orders and subsequent shipment will significantly affect quarterly revenues and resulting net income results for particular quarters which may cause increased volatility in both the Company’s revenues and stock price. We allow our customers to lease some of our products and those leases may not turn into sales. We sometimes lease our products to our customers prior to or instead of selling a product to a customer. The Company’s products are expensive, and customers frequently want to test out a product’s capabilities prior to purchase. We have had reasonable success in converting leases into subsequent sales of the same or a newer product, however there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to convert any of our leases into sales. We may be subject to product liability claims from our customers or by persons harmed by our customers’ products. The Company maintains what it deems to be reasonable levels of product liability coverage through insurance policies with a reasonably small deductible. Nonetheless, inasmuch as the Company sells its equipment to a number of customers who make pharmaceutical preparations and consumer cosmetics, there can be no assurance that if a consumer of end products is injured or dies from such product that a suit by an injured party (or a class of similar situated plaintiffs) will not include the Company as well as the maker of the drug or cosmetic. Although the Company may have no control over the manufacture of end-products made on its equipments, it may not be able to bar a plaintiff’s claims against all parties whose products and equipment were in involved in the manufacturing process under a variety of legal theories of liability. The Company may be required to present a vigorous and costly defense if it cannot be dismissed from such an action. The cost of such legal defense may significantly impact the cash flow of the Company. Our international business operations expose us to a variety of risks. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, shipments outside of North America accounted for approximately 44.8%, 48.2% and 48.9%, respectively, of our net revenues in those periods. In particular, approximately 9.2%, 19.5% and 20.5% of our net revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, resulted from sales to Japan and approximately 9.5%, 12.1% and 4.8% of those net revenues resulted from sales to Korea in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, approximately 22.3%, 13.0% 16 and 17.9% of our net revenues resulted from sales to Europe in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that shipments outside of North America will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net product revenues. We attempt to reduce some of our risk related to sales and shipments outside of the United States by requiring that our contracts generally be paid in United States Dollars. Nevertheless, a downturn in the economies of Japan, Korea or Europe might reduce investment in new technology or products while a weakening of foreign currency against the United States Dollar would make our products more expensive, each of which could have a substantial impact on our operating results. In addition, a significant portion of our total net revenue is subject to the risks associated with shipping to foreign markets in general, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; changes in tariffs; political and economic instability; risk of terrorism; difficulties in managing distributors and representatives; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas; and natural disasters, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating results. Compliance with internal controls reporting requirements will increase our costs. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on a company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of a company’s internal controls over financial reporting. We intend to expend resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404. Going forward, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. If the Company fails to implement required new or improved controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline and make it more difficult for the Company to finance its operations. Under current rules, the Company is required to comply with certain requirements of Section 404 by its first fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2007. Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported financial results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. If our accounting estimates are not correct, our financial results could be adversely affected. Management judgment and estimates are necessarily required in the application of our Critical Accounting Policies. We discuss these estimates in the subsection entitled Critical Accounting Policies beginning on page 30. If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 