ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Below are the most significant factors that make an investment in us speculative or risky. You should consider carefully these risks together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and the documents that we have incorporated by reference. 8 APPROXIMATELY ONE-HALF OF OUR REVENUE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS IS ATTRIBUTABLE TO OUR MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT WITH APIE, PURSUANT TO WHICH WE RECEIVE FEES BASED ON APIE'S SUCCESS AND ARE REQUIRED TO PROVIDE CERTAIN SERVICES AT OUR COST. Substantially all of our revenue from the insurance services segment, representing 48% of total revenue in 2006, was attributable to FMI providing management services to APIE. As the attorney-in-fact for APIE, FMI receives a percentage of the earned premiums of APIE, as well as a portion of APIE's profits. Accordingly, any reduction in premiums written by APIE or profit recorded by APIE would have a proportional negative effect on our revenues and net income. The amount of these premiums can be adversely affected by competition. Substantial underwriting losses, which might result in a curtailment or cessation of operations by APIE, would also adversely affect FMI's revenue and, accordingly, our revenue. The loss or reduction of these management fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to our management agreement with APIE, FMI is required to perform a number of sales, underwriting and management and administrative services at the direction of the Board of APIE associated with the issuance of insurance policies for APIE to earn FMI's management fee, regardless of the cost to FMI of providing those services. We could lose money or be less profitable if our cost of providing those services increases significantly. OUR SUBSIDIARIES OPERATE IN HIGHLY COMPETITIVE BUSINESSES AGAINST COMPETITORS WITH GREATER FINANCIAL, MARKETING, TECHNOLOGICAL, PERSONNEL AND OTHER RESOURCES. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Many of our competitors possess greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully. APS Financial, Asset Management and APS Capital are engaged in a highly competitive business. Their competitors include, with respect to one or more aspects of their business, all of the member organizations of the New York Stock Exchange and other registered securities exchanges, all members of the NASD, registered investment advisors, members of the various commodity exchanges and commercial banks and thrift institutions. In many instances APS Financial is competing directly with these organizations. In addition, there is competition for investment funds from the real estate, insurance, banking and thrift industries. As stated above, substantially all of our revenue from the insurance services segment was attributable to FMI providing management services to APIE. Because FMI's management fee is based on the earned premiums of APIE and APIE's profits, our revenue can be adversely affected by APIE's competition. APIE competes with several insurance carriers, including Medical Protective Insurance Company, Texas Medical Liability Trust, ProAssurance, The Doctors Company, Advocate MD and the Texas Medical Liability Insurance Underwriting Association (JUA), which is the state-sponsored insurer of last resort. APIE does not have the capacity to write the volume of business equal to that of some of the other major carriers. With the successful passing of tort reform in late 2003, additional companies have re-entered the Texas market, resulting in further increases in competition. AS A HOLDING COMPANY, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR SUBSIDIARIES. We are principally a holding company with assets consisting primarily of cash and investment securities. Consequently, our ability to pay our operating expenses and to service our indebtedness is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and our ability to receive funds from such subsidiaries through loans, dividends or otherwise. The subsidiaries are legally distinct entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us for such obligations. In addition, our subsidiaries' ability to make such payments is subject to applicable state laws, and claims of our subsidiaries' creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our subsidiaries will be able to pay funds to us or that such funds, if any, received by us will be sufficient to enable us to meet our obligations. 9 OUR FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION. The securities industry is subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control by the SEC, state securities commissions and self-regulatory organizations, which may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of APS Financial or any of its officers or employees. The NASD regulates our financial services business' marketing activities. The NASD can impose certain penalties for violations of its advertising regulations, including censures or fines, suspension of all advertising, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of a system to ensure compliance with these laws and rules, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed noncompliance in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. There can be no assurance that the federal or state governments or self-regulatory organizations having jurisdiction over our insurance and securities brokerage businesses will not adopt regulations or take other actions, such as the failure to renew or the revocation of required licenses and certifications, that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations and profitability may be affected by additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, NASD, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the various stock exchanges and other self-regulatory organizations, and state securities commissions or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or rules. WE ARE RELIANT ON KEY EXECUTIVES, KEY PERSONNEL AND KEY ACCOUNTS. We believe that our success depends on the efforts and abilities of a relatively small group of executive personnel. The loss of services of one or more of these key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our key executives. We have entered into an employment agreement with Kenneth S. Shifrin, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer that expires on August 1, 2010. We also have employment agreements with William H. Hayes, our Chief Financial Officer, Maury Magids, President of our insurance services subsidiary, and George S. Conwill, President of our investment services subsidiary. All of the latter three contracts expire in 2008. Additionally, although we have been fortunate in retaining our key salespersons for many years, a loss of one or more key salespersons and/or a loss of one or more key accounts is possible and could have a material adverse effect upon earnings. In particular, commissions revenues from a single customer of our broker/dealer subsidiary, APS Financial, represented 44% of total revenues of the subsidiary. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse impact on the operating results of the company. WE ARE EXPOSED TO INTEREST RATE AND INVESTMENT RISK. Changes in interest rates could have an impact at our broker/dealer subsidiary, APS Financial. The general level of interest rates may trend higher or lower in 2007, and this move may impact our level of business in different fixed-income sectors. If a generally improving economy is the impetus behind higher rates, then while our investment grade business may drop off, our high-yield business might improve with improving credit conditions. A volatile interest rate environment in 2007 could also impact our business as this type of market condition can lead to investor uncertainty and their corresponding willingness to commit funds. As we currently have no debt and do not anticipate the need to take on any debt in 2007, interest rate changes will have no impact on our financial position as it pertains to interest expense. As of December 31, 2006, our recorded basis in debt and equity securities was approximately $21 million. A material other than temporary decline in the 10 value of any of these investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A decline in the value of equity securities, evidenced by lower prices traded for the common stock of these companies, might occur for several reasons, including poor financial performance, obsolescence of the service or product provided or any other news deemed to be negative by the investing public. A decline in the value of debt securities might occur for the same reasons above as well as due to an increase in interest rates. The value of the fixed income securities is also subject to interest rate risk. As market interest rates decrease, the portfolio value increases with the opposite holding true in rising interest rate environments. Equity securities are subject to equity price risk, which is defined as the potential for loss in market value due to a decline in equity prices. The value of common stock equity investments is dependent upon the general conditions in the securities markets and the business and financial performance of the individual companies in the portfolio. Values are typically based on future economic prospects as perceived by investors in the equity markets. FAILURE OF THIRD-PARTY VENDORS TO PROVIDE CRITICAL SERVICES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We rely on a number of third parties to assist in the processing of our transactions, including online and internet service providers, back office processing organizations, and market makers. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. WE ARE SUBJECT TO MARKET FORCES BEYOND OUR CONTROL WHICH COULD IMPACT US MORE SEVERELY THAN OUR COMPETITORS. Our securities brokerage business, like other securities firms, is directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance and changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. In recent years, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant volatility. If our trading volume decreases, our revenues decline. Also, when trading volume is low, our profitability is adversely affected because our overhead remains relatively fixed, despite lower compensation costs associated with commission revenues. Severe market fluctuations in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Although we have diversified our product and service revenue streams, some of our competitors with more diverse product and service offerings might withstand such a downturn in the securities industry better than we would. OUR CUSTOMERS MAY DEFAULT ON THEIR MARGIN ACCOUNTS, EFFECTIVELY PASSING THEIR LOSSES ON TO US. Our securities brokerage customers sometimes purchase securities on margin through our Capital organization; therefore we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. This risk is especially great when the market is rapidly declining. In such a decline, the value of the collateral securing the margin loans could fall below the amount of a customer's indebtedness. Specific regulatory guidelines mandate the amount that can be loaned against various security types. APS Financial rigorously adheres to these guidelines and in a number of instances exceeds those requirements. Independent of our review, our corresponding Capital organization independently maintains a credit review of our customer accounts. If customers fail to honor their commitments, the Capital organization would sell the securities held as collateral. If the value of the collateral were insufficient to repay the loan, a loss would occur, which we may be required to fund. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. APS FINANCIAL MUST MAINTAIN CERTAIN NET CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS THAT COULD SLOW OUR EXPANSION PLANS OR PREVENT PAYMENTS OF DIVIDENDS. The SEC, NASD and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Net capital is the net worth of a broker or dealer (assets minus 11 liabilities), less deductions for certain types of assets. If a firm fails to maintain the required net capital, it may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by the NASD, and could ultimately lead to the firm's liquidation. If such net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Such operations may include trading activities and the financing of customer account balances. Also, our ability to pay dividends, repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock could be severely restricted. A significant operating loss or an extraordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of APS Financial to expand or even maintain its present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. OUR TRADING SYSTEMS MAY FAIL, RESULTING IN SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS. Our securities brokerage business receives and processes trade orders through internal trading software and touch-tone telephones and depends heavily on the integrity of the electronic systems supporting this type of trading. Heavy stress placed on our systems during peak trading times could cause our systems to operate too slowly or fail. If our systems or any other systems in the trading process slow down significantly or fail even for a short time, our customers would suffer delays in trading, potentially causing substantial losses and possibly subjecting us to claims for such losses or to litigation claiming fraud or negligence. During a systems failure, we may be able to take orders by telephone; however, only associates with securities broker's licenses can accept telephone orders, and an adequate number of associates may not be available to take customer calls in the event of a systems failure. In addition, a hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications interruption or natural disaster could cause a system failure. Any systems failure that interrupts our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE MAY FLUCTUATE WITH INSURANCE BUSINESS CYCLES. Growth in premiums written in the medical professional liability industry have fluctuated significantly over the past 10 years as a result of, among other factors, changing premium rates. The cyclical pattern of such fluctuation has been generally consistent with similar patterns for the broader property and casualty insurance industry, due in part to the participation in the medical professional liability industry of insurers and reinsurers which also participate in many other lines of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical patterns characterized by periods of greater competition in pricing and underwriting terms and conditions, a soft insurance market, followed by period of capital shortage, lesser competition and increasing premium rates, a hard insurance market. For the past two years the professional liability industry has faced a soft insurance market that has generally resulted in lower premium rates. We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, the recent decrease in premium rates will continue. CHANGES IN THE HEALTH CARE INDUSTRY COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR INSURANCE OPERATIONS. After the merger, our insurance operations will derive substantially all of its medical professional liability insurance premiums from physicians and other individual healthcare providers, physician groups and smaller healthcare facilities. Significant attention has recently been focused on reforming the healthcare industry at both the federal and state levels. In recent years, a number of factors related to the emergence of managed care have negatively impacted or threatened to impact the practice of medicine and economic independence of medical professionals. Medical professionals have found it more difficult to conduct a traditional fee-for-service practice and many have been driven to join or contractually affiliate with provider-supported organizations. Such change and consolidation may result in the elimination of, or a significant decrease in, the role of the physician in the medical professional liability insurance purchasing decision and could reduce APIE's, and after the merger our, medical professional liability premiums as groups of insurance purchasers may be able to retain more risk. 12 BECAUSE OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MUST BALANCE FIDUCIARY OBLIGATIONS TO APIE AND TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS, OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MAY MAKE DECISIONS THAT ARE NOT SOLELY IN THE INTERESTS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS. As attorney-in-fact, FMI is contractually required to provide management and administrative services to APIE. In such capacity, FMI also has a fiduciary duty to the policyholders of APIE to protect their interests. Likewise, we have a fiduciary duty to our shareholders. Certain issues arise that may create conflicts of interest between these fiduciary duties. Among such potential conflicts of interest are: o Management must devote attention to the business interests of both APIE and us; o APIE may enter into other transactions and contractual relationships with us and our subsidiaries; and o State regulators could challenge the reasonableness of the transactions between us and APIE because of potential or actual conflicts of interest. As a consequence, our board of directors may make decisions or take actions that are not solely in the interests of our shareholders, although we believe that decisions that strengthen APIE could have a long-term positive effect on us. If, for example, there should be a need to strengthen the surplus of APIE, our board of directors may decide to reduce the management fee rate and/or that a capital contribution should be made by us to APIE in the form of a surplus note or some other form. Under such circumstances, we may be required to provide such capital to APIE at a lower rate of return than would be available with other investments or at no return at all. Payments of interest and repayment of principal on a surplus note are subject to prior approval of the Texas Department of Insurance, which may not approve such payments. We may also find it necessary to fund additional surplus for APIE by issuing additional shares of our capital stock, resulting in dilution of existing shareholders' interest. IF MARKET CONDITIONS CAUSE REINSURANCE TO BE MORE COSTLY OR UNAVAILABLE FOR APIE, OUR MANAGEMENT FEE MAY BE REDUCED. As part of APIE's overall risk management strategy, it currently purchases reinsurance for amounts of risk from $250,000 up to $1,000,000. If APIE is unable to maintain its current reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates, or if APIE is unable to renew its expiring reinsurance coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, APIE may be adversely affected by losses or have to reduce the amount of risk it underwrites, in either case reducing our management fee. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS, OUR SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN AND TEXAS LAW COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE IN CONTROL. Certain anti-takeover provisions applicable to our governance could prevent or delay an acquisition of our business at a premium price or at all. Some of these provisions are contained in our articles of incorporation as well as in a shareholder rights plan adopted by the Company. Others are contained in the Texas statutory law governing corporations. These provisions may have the effect of delaying, making more difficult or preventing a change in control or acquisition of the Company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions are expected to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of the Company first to negotiate with us. Our articles of incorporation provide that we may not engage in certain business combinations with a corporation, subsidiary of a corporation, person, or other entity which is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of twenty percent or more of our outstanding voting shares unless either certain requirements are first satisfied or the transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of no less than two-thirds of the shares of our common stock present in person or by proxy as a meeting where at least 80% of our common shares are represented (in person or by proxy). 13 Under our shareholder rights plan, each outstanding share of common stock has attached to it one purchase right. Each purchase right entitles its holder to purchase from the Company a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock at a price subject to adjustment. This could prevent or delay a change in control of the Company. Articles 13.01 through 13.08 of the Texas Business Corporations Act provide that a Texas corporation may not engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, and asset sales, with a person, or an affiliate or associate of such person, who is an "affiliated shareholder" (generally defined as the holder of twenty percent or more of the corporation's voting shares) for a period of three years from the date such person became an affiliated shareholder unless (i) the business combination or purchase or acquisition of shares made by the affiliate shareholder was approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the affiliated shareholder became an affiliated shareholder; or (ii) the business combination was approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation not beneficially owned by the affiliated shareholder, at a meeting of shareholders called for that purpose (and not by written consent), not less than six months after the affiliated shareholder became an affiliated shareholder. Neither our articles of incorporation nor our bylaws contain any provision expressly providing that we will not be subject to the Texas anti-takeover statute. The Texas anti-takeover statute may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination involving the Company, even if such event(s) would be beneficial to our shareholders. OUR MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDERS HAVE SIGNIFICANT CONTROL OF THE COMPANY AND THE ABILITY TO INFLUENCE THE APPROVAL OF MATTERS FOR WHICH SHAREHOLDER VOTING IS INVOLVED. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 33% of the Company's outstanding common stock, assuming full conversion of all options exercisable within 60 days of March 31, 2007, that they may beneficially own. As a result, our management is able to influence and possibly control the election of our board of directors and the outcome of other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. THE PASSAGE OF TORT REFORM AND THE SUBSEQUENT REVIEW OF SUCH LAWS BY THE COURTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR INSURANCE OPERATIONS. As stated above, substantially all of our revenue from the insurance services segment was attributable to FMI providing management services to APIE. Because FMI's management fee is based on the earned premiums of APIE and APIE's profits, our revenue can be adversely affected by the impact of tort reforms on APIE's business. Tort reforms generally restrict the ability of a plaintiff to recover damages by imposing one or more limitations, including, among other limitations, eliminating certain claims that may be heard in a court, limiting the amount or types of damages, changing statutes of limitation or the period of time to make a claim, and/or limiting venue or court selection. Texas enacted legislation in 2003 specifically directed at medical malpractice liability insurance reform. Among the more significant aspects of the legislation were caps on non-economic damages and caps on non-economic damages against a single institution and against all health-care institutions combined. While the effects of tort reform would appear to be generally beneficial to APIE's business, there can be no assurance that such reforms will be effective or ultimately upheld by the courts in the various states. Further, if tort reforms are effective, the business of providing professional and other liability insurance may become more attractive, thereby causing an increase in competition for APIE and reducing our management fee or insurance services revenues. In addition, there can be no assurance that the benefits of tort reform will not be accompanied by regulatory actions by state insurance authorities that may be detrimental to APIE such as expanded coverage requirements and premium rate limitations or rollbacks. Also, the tort reform legislation, and the caps on non-economic damages, could change as a result of challenges in the courts or by future legislation. 14 