ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face intense competition. The markets for some of our current and potential products are intensely competitive. We face competition from companies that possess both larger sales forces and more capital resources. In addition, there are a growing number of competitors for certain of our products. Technological change could render our products obsolete or non-competitive. The market for our products and services are characterized by rapid and substantial technological changes and swiftly evolving industry standards. As industry standards evolve, we may be required to develop new and competitive products to maintain or increase revenue. A competitive product requires substantial planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process stages. We can provide no assurance that our products will remain competitive in a rapidly changing environment. In addition, regulations and industry acceptance of new technologies may decelerate or eliminate meaningful revenue. Acquisition of businesses could potentially decrease profit margins and decrease net income. We maintain our growth strategy through product development and business and technology acquisition. Businesses acquired may provide marginal profitability or prove to be unprofitable. Additional risks include the competition among prospective buyers, the potential loss of key employees or clients of the acquired company, and the reallocation of capital from ongoing operating processes. 5 Table of Contents We are utilizing variable rate financing. In February 2012, we entered into a three year agreement for a $20,000,000 revolving line of credit and up to $1,000,000 of letters of credit (the “Credit Facility”). Under the Credit Facility, indebtedness bears interest at either: (1) LIBOR plus an applicable margin, ranging from 1.25% to 2.00%, or (2) the bank’s commercial bank floating rate (“CBFR”), which is the greater of the bank’s prime rate or one month LIBOR + 2.50%, adjusted down, from 1.25% to 0.50%. A change in interest rate market conditions could increase our interest costs in the future. We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our technology and processes. There is no assurance that the patents we have obtained, or any patents we may obtain, will provide any competitive advantages for our products, and that those patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. We may have product liability claims. Our products involve a risk of product liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance at coverage levels which we believe are adequate, there is no assurance that, if we were to incur substantial liability for product liability claims, insurance would provide adequate coverage against such liability. Our Company faces challenges in complying with certain sections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Like many smaller public companies, we face challenges in complying with the internal control requirements (Section 404) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Under current frameworks, compliance in areas such as separation of duties, information system controls, etc. may prove problematic for a smaller company with limited human resources. We may also be forced to incur significant expense in order to comply with the law under current control frameworks for implementation. Changing accounting regulations may affect operating results. Our operating results may be adversely affected by new laws and accounting regulations that have either been recently enacted or which are under consideration, including costs associated with implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have significant long-term assets subject to impairment testing. Periodically, we must assess our property, plant and equipment, intangibles, and goodwill for impairment. General market conditions and our operating results, among other factors, may lead to an impairment charge to our operating results. We may have exposure in certain states for collecting and remitting sales tax. Determination of when a company must collect and remit sales tax varies by state. While we monitor our activity by state, individual states have the ability to challenge our conclusions. In the event our interpretation was incorrect, we may be exposed to remitting sales tax that we have not collected. 6 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on numerous factors including the following: · the introduction of new products · the level of market acceptance of our products · achievement of research and development milestones · timing of the receipt of orders from, and product shipment to major customers · timing of expenditures · variation in capital spending trends of our customers · timing of the expensing of employee stock options · delays in educating and training our distributors and representatives sales forces · manufacturing or supply delays · product returns · receipt of necessary regulatory approval · costs associated with implementing and maintaining compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act · costs associated with expansion of our direct sales capabilities · changes in key components by our vendors · cost and timing of acquisitions · changes in estimates for our reserves associated with inventory and accounts receivable · impairment of long-lived assets Changing industry trends may affect operating results. Various changes within the industries we serve may limit future demand for our products and may include the following: · changes in dialysis reimbursements · mergers within the dialysis provider industry have made us more dependent upon fewer, large customers for our sales in this industry · price competition for key products · increased competition. Our growth depends on introducing new products and the efforts of third party distributors. Our growth depends on the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, the penetration achieved by the companies which we sell to, and rely on, to distribute and represent our products, and our ability to introduce new and innovative products that meet the needs of the various markets we serve. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to introduce new and innovative products or that the products we introduce, or have introduced, will be widely accepted by the marketplace, or that the companies which we contract with to distribute and represent our products will continue to successfully penetrate our various markets. Our failure to continue to introduce new products or gain widespread acceptance of our products would adversely affect our operations. We depend on attracting new distributors and representatives for our products. In order to successfully commercialize our products in new markets, we will need to enter into distribution arrangements with companies that can successfully distribute and represent our products into various markets. Our products are extensively regulated which could delay product introduction or halt sales. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Although we have not experienced any substantial regulatory delays to date, there is no assurance that delays will not occur in the future, which could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities to ascertain compliance with “good manufacturing 7 Table of Contents practices” and can subject approved products to additional testing and surveillance programs. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal penalties. While we believe that we are currently in compliance, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 