Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS There are a number of factors, many beyond our control, which may cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. There may also be a number of factors not described in this report that could also cause results to differ from our expectations. Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more factors, have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are listed below. You should consider carefully these risks together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and the documents that we have incorporated by reference. Our reliance on key executives could affect our results of operations. We believe that our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our relatively small group of executive officers personnel. The loss of services of one or more of these key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our key executives. In 2000, Kenneth S. Shifrin, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and he received chemotherapy treatment during 2007. Although he is currently in remission, a worsening of the effects of this condition could reduce our access to Mr. Shifrin’s services, which could adversely affect our business. 18 As a holding company, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on our subsidiaries and our ability to pay expenses and dividends will be dependent on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries, which may be restricted. We are principally a holding company with assets consisting primarily of cash, investment securities and the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay our operating expenses, make redemption payments on our redeemable preferred stock and service our other indebtedness is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and our ability to receive funds from such subsidiaries through loans, dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us for such obligations. In addition, our subsidiaries’ ability to make such payments is subject to applicable state laws and claims of our subsidiaries’ creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries. Accordingly, our subsidiaries may not be able to pay funds to us sufficient to enable us to meet our obligations. T he ability of API to pay dividends to us or redeem any of the API preferred stock that we hold is subject to regulation by the Texas Department of Insurance. In addition to restrictions on dividends and distributions applicable to all Texas stock insurance companies, for so long as any Series A redeemable preferred stock is outstanding, the Texas Department of Insurance prohibits API from paying dividends or other distributions to us in respect of API’s capital stock that we hold in any calendar year unless and until we have complied with our redemption and dividend payment obligation to the holders of our Series A redeemable preferred stock for that year. Our agreement with the Texas Department of Insurance also provides that, until all of the Series A redeemable preferred stock has been fully redeemed and all dividends have paid, API will not make aggregate annual dividends to us with respect to API’s common stock in excess of the lesser of 10% of A PI’s prior year-end policyholder statutory surplus or API’s prior year statutory net income, and in no event may such distributions exceed API’s statutory earned surplus. By way of illustration, if this common stock dividend restriction had been in place in 2005 and 2006 possible dividends paid by API to us for those years would have been limited to $2,979,000 and $4,555,000, respectively. For 2007, the common stock dividend restriction is $7,717,000. Accordingly our subsidiaries may not be able to pay funds to us and, even if paid such funds may not be sufficient to enable us to meet our obligations. We are exposed to credit risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk. We are principally exposed to three types of market risk related to our investment portfolio, including credit risk, interest rate risk, and equity price risk. We have exposure to credit risk primarily as a holder of fixed-income securities. Equity securities are subject to equity price risk, which is defined as the potential for loss in market value due to a decline in equity prices. A decline in the value of equity securities, evidenced by lower prices traded for the common stock of these companies, might occur for several reasons, including poor financial performance, obsolescence of the service or product provided or any other news deemed to be negative by the investing public. A decline in the value of debt securities might occur for the same reasons above as well as due to an increase in interest rates. A material decline, other than temporary, in the value of any of our debt or equity securities or a going-concern problem regarding an i ssuer could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of our fixed-income securities are also subject to interest rate and other risks. As interest rates decrease, the value of the portfolio increases with the opposite holding true in rising interest rate environments. All of our fixed-income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheet. Fixed-income securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a change in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. 19 Changes in interest rates could also have an impact at our broker-dealer subsidiary, APS Financial. Since revenues at APS Financial are primarily recorded as commissions earned on the trading of fixed-income securities, a rise in interest rates would cause a drop in the price of these securities and would generally result in customers being cautious about committing funds or selling their positions, thus negatively affecting commissions earned. The general level of interest rates may trend higher or lower in 2008 and this move may impact our level of business in different fixed-income sectors. A volatile interest rate environment in 2008 could also impact our business as this type of market condition can lead to investor uncertainty and their corresponding willingness to commit funds. If a generally improving economy is the impetus behind higher rates, our investment grade business may decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, our shareholder rights plan and Texas law could prevent or delay a change in control. Certain anti-takeover provisions applicable to our governance could prevent or delay an acquisition of our business at a premium price or at all. Some of these provisions are contained in our articles of incorporation as well as in our shareholder rights plan. Others are contained in the Texas statutory law governing corporations. These provisions may have the effect of delaying, making more difficult or preventing a change in control or acquisition of the Company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions are expected to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of the Company first to negotiate with us. Our articles of incorporation provide that we may not engage in certain business combinations with a corporation, subsidiary of a corporation, person, or other entity which is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of twenty percent or more of our outstanding voting shares unless either certain requirements are first satisfied or the transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of no less than two-thirds of the shares of our common stock present in person or by proxy as a meeting where at least 80% of our common shares are represented (in person or by proxy). Under our shareholder rights plan, each outstanding share of common stock has attached to it one purchase right. Each purchase right entitles its holder to purchase from the Company a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share of junior participating preferred stock at a price subject to adjustment. This could prevent or delay a change in control of the Company. Articles 13.01 through 13.08 of the Texas Business Corporations Act provide that a Texas corporation may not engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, and asset sales, with a person, or an affiliate or associate of such person, who is an “affiliated shareholder” (generally defined as the holder of twenty percent or more of the corporation’s voting shares) for a period of three years from the date such person became an affiliated shareholder unless (i) the business combination or purchase or acquisition of shares made by the affiliate shareholder was approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the affiliated shareholder became an affiliated shareholder; or (ii) the business combination was approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation not beneficially owned by the affiliated shareholder, at a meeting of shareholders ca lled for that purpose , not less than six months after the affiliated shareholder became an affiliated shareholder. The Texas anti-takeover statute may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination involving the Company, even if such event(s) would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our geographic concentration means that our insurance business performance may be affected by economic, regulatory and demographic conditions of our operations within the State of Texas. Our business is concentrated in Texas, in which we generated 99% of premiums written by API for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. Accordingly, unfavorable economic, regulatory and demographic conditions in Texas would negatively impact our business. We focus exclusively on medical professional liability insurance. In the event there is meaningful change in the existing legislation and claims environment, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to greater risks than those faced by insurance companies that conduct business over a larger geographic area. For example, our geographic concentration could subject us to pricing pressure as a result of market or regulatory forces. 20 Our Insurance Services business is highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources. The insurance industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors possess greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully. All of our revenue from the Insurance Services segment is attributable to API. API competes with several insurance carriers, including Medical Protective Insurance Services Inc., Texas Medical Liability Trust (“TMLT”), ProAssurance Corporation, The Doctors Company, Advocate MD RPG, Inc., and Texas Medical Liability Insurance Underwriting Association, which is the state-sponsored insurer of last resort. We consider these companies API’s competitors because they are the companies to which policyholders who cancel their policies with API typically move. Many of our competitors have greater financial strength and broader resources than us. We compete with these companies on a variety of factors including price, customer service, expertise in claims handling, policy coverage, risk management services and financial strength. In premiums written and asset size, Medical Protective Insurance Services Inc., TMLT, ProAssurance Corporation and The Doct ors Company are significantly larger than API. We do not have the capacity to write the volume of business equal to that of some of the other major carriers. With the implementation of tort reform in late 2003, additional companies have entered the Texas market, resulting in further increases in competition. As a result of this increased competition, API continues to face price pressure on both existing renewals and new business. Our largest insurance competitor, TMLT was established under the provisions of a statute that authorized a statewide association of physicians or dentists to create a trust to self-insure its members. TMLT has certain competitive advantages as a result. TMLT is subject to limited government regulation in comparison to other insurance companies, such as API, in regards to statutory financial reporting and financial examinations by the Texas Department of Insurance. TMLT further benefits from not being required to pay premium taxes or participate in the Texas guaranty association. If we are unable to maintain a favorable financial strength rating or if it is lowered, it may be more difficult for our Insurance Services business to write new business or renew its existing business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to insurance companies represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet policyholder obligations and are not directed toward the protection of investors. These ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any security. Financial strength ratings are used by agents and clients as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. The inability of API to maintain a favorable rating could adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. These results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not effectively price our insurance policies, then our financial results will be adversely affected. Our premium rates are established when coverage is initiated and based on factors that include estimates of expected losses generated from the policies we underwrite. We analyze many factors when pricing a policy, including the policyholder’s prior loss history, medical specialty and practicing territory. If we underprice our insurance policies, actual costs for providing insurance coverage to policyholders may be significantly higher than associated premiums. When initiating coverage on a policyholder, we must rely on information provided by the policyholder or previous carriers to properly estimate future claims exposure. If any information is inaccurate, we could underprice our policies by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, actual costs for providing insurance coverage to policyholders may be significantly higher than associated premiums. We assume the risk that policies in force were written at inadequate premium rates. 21 If our relationships with certain of our independent agencies, one of which accounts for a significant part of our business, were terminated, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We market and sell our insurance products through a group of approximately 31 active independent, non-exclusive insurance agents. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 46% of our gross premiums written were produced by one agency. This agency also serves as our primary reinsurance broker. We do not have exclusive arrangements with our agents, and either party can terminate the relationship at any time. These agents are not obligated to promote our products and may also sell our competitors’ products. We must offer medical professional liability insurance products and services that meet the requirements of these agents and their customers. We must also provide competitive commissions to these agents. Thus, our relationships with our distribution partners may not continue or may continue under terms that are not as favorable to us as our current agreements. Also, if we do not maintain good relationships with the agents with whom we contract to sell our products, these agents may sell our competitors’ products instead of ours or may direct less desirable risks to us, and our revenues or profitability may decline. In addition, these agents may find it easier to promote the broader range of programs of some of our competitors than to promote our single-line medical professional liability insurance products. The loss of a number of our independent agents or the failure of these agents to successfully market our products could result in lower gross premiums written and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to replace them with agents that produce comparable premiums. Loss reserves in our Insurance Services business are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover actual loss and loss adjustment expenses. We must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses in our Insurance Services business. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims based on actuarial estimation techniques and are inherently uncertain. Judgment is required in applying actuarial techniques to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim closure patterns under current facts and circumstances. We periodically review our established reserves and may adjust reserves based on the results of these reviews. If we change our estimates, these changes are reflected in results of operations during the period in which they are made. These adjustments could be significant. If Texas tort reform is successfully challenged, it could materially affect our insurance operations. Tort reforms generally restrict the ability of a plaintiff to recover damages by imposing one or more limitations, including, among other limitations, eliminating certain claims that may be heard in a court, limiting the amount or types of damages, changing statutes of limitation or the period of time to make a claim and/or limiting venue or court selection. Texas enacted legislation in 2003 specifically directed at medical professional liability reform. Among the more significant aspects of the legislation were caps on non-economic damages and caps on non-economic damages against a single institution and against all healthcare institutions combined. While the effects of tort reform may be generally beneficial to our insurance business, such reforms may not be effective or ultimately upheld by the courts. In the event that we begin experiencing an increase in claims frequency and/or severity, we will have to respond with corresponding increases to premium rate levels. These changes in rates may prevent us from having the ability to expand our Insurance Services business in the Texas marketplace. In addition, the benefits of tort reform may be accompanied by regulatory actions by state insurance authorities that may be detrimental to our insurance business, such as expanded coverage requirements and premium rate limitations or rollbacks. 22 Prior-year favorable experiences on our variable premium reinsurance contracts may not continue to result in favorable adjustments to ceded premiums. Our annual reinsurance contracts since 2002 contain variable premium ceding rates based on loss experience and thus, a portion of policyholder premium ceded to the reinsurers is calculated on a retrospective basis. The variable premium contract is subject to a minimum and a maximum premium range to be paid to the reinsurers, depending on the extent of losses actually paid by the reinsurers. A provisional premium is paid during the initial policy year. The actual percentage rate ultimately ceded under these contracts will depend upon the development of ultimate losses ceded to the reinsurers under their retrospective treaties. Since April 1, 2007, the date of acquisition of API, we have recorded favorable development to ceded premiums of $10,888,000 primarily related to prior variable premium reinsurance treaties as a result of lower estimated loss and loss adjustment expenses for treaty years 2002 through 2006. Prior-year favorable experiences on our variable premium reinsurance contracts may not continue to result in favorable adjustments to ceded premiums. Market conditions could cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable for our Insurance Services business. As part of our overall risk management strategy, we currently purchase reinsurance for amounts of risk from $250,000 up to $1,000,000. If we are unable to maintain our current reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates we may be adversely affected by losses or have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. We bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, and if any reinsurer fails to pay us, or fails to pay us on a timely basis, we could experience a shortage of liquidity or unexpected losses. We transfer some of our risks to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, it does not relieve us of our liability to our policyholders. If reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay on a timely basis, our financial results will be adversely affected. Our Insurance Services business is subject to extensive government regulation. Insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. Regulation is intended for the benefit of policyholders rather than shareholders. In addition to control over the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made by API, these regulatory authorities have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to licensing requirements, trade practices, capital and surplus requirements, investment practices and rates charged to insurance customers. These regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on rate increases or other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Also, our ability to grow API through premiums and additional capacity could be limited due to surplus and risk-based capital requirements under the financial regulatory guidelines of the Texas Department of Insurance. Currently, pursuant to an order of the Texas Department of Insurance, we must redeem at least $1 million of our Series A redeemable preferred stock each calendar year beginning in 2007, until December 31, 2016, at which time all of the Series A redeemable preferred stock must have been redeemed. We also must pay a cumulative dividend to holders of our Series A redeemable preferred stock equal to 3% of the outstanding redemption value per year. In addition, the Texas Department of Insurance has required us to place $2.5 million into an escrow account with a bank, to remain in escrow until the aggregate remaining redemption and dividend obligation with respect to our Series A redeemable preferred stock is less than the amount of such escrow balance. We have agreed that no withdrawals will be made from this escrow account without prior approval from the Texas Department of Insurance. 23 The fact that we write only a single line of insurance may leave us at a competitive disadvantage and subjects our financial condition and results of operations to the cyclical nature of the medical professional liability insurance market. We face a competitive disadvantage because we only offer a single line of insurance. Some of our competitors have additional competitive leverage because of the wide array of insurance products that they offer. For example, a business may find it more efficient or less expensive to purchase multiple lines of insurance coverage from a single carrier. Because we do not offer a range of insurance products and sell only medical professional liability insurance, we may lose potential customers to larger competitors who do offer a selection of insurance products. Growth in premiums written in the medical professional liability insurance industry have fluctuated significantly over the past ten years as a result of, among other factors, changing premium rates. The cyclical pattern of such fluctuation has been generally consistent with similar patterns for the broader property and casualty insurance industry, due in part to the participation in the medical professional liability insurance industry of insurers and reinsurers that also participate in many other lines of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical patterns characterized by periods of greater competition in pricing and underwriting terms and conditions, otherwise referred to as a soft insurance market, followed by periods of capital shortage, lesser competition and increasing premium rates, otherwise referred to as a hard insur ance market. For the past three years, the medical professional liability insurance industry has faced a soft insurance market that has generally resulted in lower premium rates. During this three-year period, API’s rates have decreased by approximately 9% in 2005, 18% in 2006 and 14% in 2007. We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, the recent decreases in premium rates will continue. Changes in the healthcare industry could have a material impact on the results of operations of our Insurance Services business. Our Insurance Services business derives substantially all of its medical professional liability insurance premiums from physicians and other individual healthcare providers, physician groups and smaller healthcare facilities. Significant attention has recently been focused on reforming the healthcare industry at both the federal and state levels. In recent years, a number of factors related to the emergence of managed care have negatively affected or threatened to affect the practice of medicine and economic independence of medical professionals. Medical professionals have found it more difficult to conduct a traditional fee-for-service practice and many have been driven to join or contractually affiliate with provider-supported organizations. Such change and consolidation may result in the elimination of, or a significant decrease in, the role of the physician in the medical professional liability insurance purchasing decision and could reduce our medica l professional liability insurance premiums, as groups of insurance purchasers may be able to retain more risk. If we are unable to successfully write policies in new states, we may not be able to grow and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. One of our strategies is to write medical professional liability insurance in new states, either through internal growth initiatives or selective acquisitions. However, our lack of experience in a new state means that this strategy is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • comply with applicable laws and regulations in those new states; • obtain accurate data relating to the medical professional liability industry and competitive environment in those new states; • attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations; • identify and attract acquisition targets; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agents; 24 • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business; and • integrate an acquired business into our operations. Any of these risks, as well as risks that are currently unknown to us or adverse developments in the regulatory or market conditions in any of the new states that we enter, could cause us to fail to grow and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The unpredictability of court decisions in our Insurance Services business could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by court decisions that expand the liability on the insurance policies API issues after they have been issued and priced. Additionally, a significant jury award, or series of awards, against one or more of API’s insureds could require API to pay large sums of money in excess of its reserved amounts. API’s policy to litigate claims against its insureds that it considers unwarranted or claims where settlement resolution cannot be achieved may increase the risk that API may be required to make such payments. API could become subject to claims for extra-contractual obligations or losses in excess of policy limits in connection with its policyholders’ insurance claims. These claims are sometimes referred to as “bad faith” actions as it is alleged that the insurance company failed to negotiate a settlement of a claim in good faith within the insured’s policy limit. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Financial Services subsidiaries operate in highly competitive businesses against competitors with greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources. Our Financial Services businesses are engaged in a highly competitive industry. We compete with numerous other broker-dealers, many of which are well known national or large regional firms with substantially greater financial and personnel resources. We also compete with a number of smaller regional brokerage firms in Texas and the southwestern United States. In many instances APS Financial Corporation (“APS Financial”), our broker-dealer subsidiary, competes directly with these organizations. In addition, there is competition for investment funds from the real estate, insurance, banking and thrift industries. APS Financial competes for brokerage transactions principally on the basis of our research, our reputation in particular markets, and the strength of our client relationships. In our investment banking activities, we compete with large, well-known investment banks as well as regional service providers who offer placement and advisory services to small-and middle market companies. We compete for these investment banking assignments on the basis of our relationships with the issuers, potential investors, industry experience and transactional fees. There is also significant competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. We compete with other securities firms for investment bankers, sales representatives, securities traders, analysts and other professionals. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. Our Financial Services businesses are subject to market forces beyond our control, which could affect us more severely than our competitors. Our Financial Services businesses, like other securities firms, are directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance and changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. In recent years, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant volatility. If our trading volume decreases, our revenues decline. Also, when trading volume is low, our profitability is adversely affected because our overhead remains relatively fixed, despite lower compensation costs associated with commission revenues. Severe market fluctuations in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain of our competitors with more diverse product and service offerings might withstand such a downturn in the securities industry better than we would. 25 Our Financial Services segment is dependent on a limited number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our profitability. We receive a substantial portion of our Financial Services revenues from a limited number of customers. In 2007, one customer and its related entities comprised approximately 51% of our total Financial Services revenues. The loss of this customer could significantly negatively affect the operating results of our Financial Services segment. Our Financial Services business is subject to extensive government regulation. The securities industry is subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), state securities commissions and self-regulatory organizations, which may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of APS Financial or any of its officers or employees. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) regulates our Financial Services business’ marketing activities. FINRA can impose certain penalties for violations of its advertising regulations, including censures or fines, suspension of all advertising, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of a system to ensure compliance with these laws and rules, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed noncompliance in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The federal or state governments or self-regulatory organizations having jurisdiction over our Financial Services business could adopt regulations or take other actions, such as the failure to renew or the revocation of required licenses that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations and profitability may be affected by additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the various stock exchanges and other self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or rules. The SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Net capital is the net worth of a broker or dealer (assets minus liabilities), less deductions for certain types of assets. If a firm fails to maintain the required net capital, it may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by the FINRA and could ultimately lead to the firm’s liquidation. If such net capital rules are changed or expanded or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Such operations may include trading activities and the financing of customer account balances. Also, our ability to pay dividends, repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock could be severely restricted. A significant operating loss or an extr aordinary charge against net capital could adversely affect the ability of APS Financial to expand or even maintain its present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 26 Customers of our Financial Services business may default on their margin accounts, effectively passing their losses on to us. Our Financial Services customers sometimes purchase securities on margin through our clearing organization, Southwest Securities, Inc. therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. These risks are especially great when the market is rapidly declining. In such a decline, the value of the collateral securing the margin loans could fall below the amount of a customer’s indebtedness. Specific regulatory guidelines mandate the amount that can be loaned against various security types. Independent of our review, our corresponding clearing organization independently maintains a credit review of our customer accounts. If customers fail to honor their commitments, the clearing organization would sell the securities held as collateral. If the value of the collateral were insufficient to repay the loan, a loss would occur, which we may be required to fund. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditio n and operating results. We are exposed to litigation in our Financial Services business. From time to time, we are subject to lawsuits and other claims arising out of our Financial Services business. The outcome of these actions cannot be predicted, and such litigation or actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict the effect of any current or future litigation, regulatory activity or investigations on our business. Given the current regulatory environment it is possible that we will become subject to further governmental inquiries and have lawsuits filed against us. Our involvement in any investigations and lawsuits would cause us to incur additional legal and other costs and, if we were found to have violated any laws, rules or regulations, we could be required to pay material fines, damages and other costs. We could also be materially adversely affected by the negative publicity related to these proceedings, and by any new industry-wide regulations or practices that m ay result from these proceedings. One of our Financial Services subsidiaries trades bank debt and trade claims which subjects us to potential losses and litigation risk. APS Capital Corporation (“APS Capital”), one of our subsidiaries in the Financial Services portion of our business, trades bank debt and trade claims. In that capacity, APS Capital potentially is liable for losses related to the impairment of the traded claims and for disputes that may arise during the trading process from either the holders of, or investors in, bank debt or trade claims. For losses due to impairment, APS Capital may be liable for the portion of its potential profit on a trade that is proportional to any part of a traded claim that is subsequently impaired, offset, disallowed, subordinated, or subject to disgorgement (an “impairment”). Trade claims are private debt instruments representing claims by creditors against a debtor in bankruptcy. On rare occasions, when a trade claim has been allowed by a final, non-appealable court order, APS Capital may provide impairment protection for the full amount of a traded claim. In this case, it is possible that (1) a claim is impaired and (2) APS Capital may be unable to recover the impairment from any prior assignor of the claim. In the process of trading or negotiating bank debt and trade claims, APS Capital is also subject to general litigation risk, which may result from disputes that arise during its trading process or from trades. APS Capital is currently party to one lawsuit related to its trade claim business. At this point we are not able to accurately quantify potential liability or damages, if any, related to this matter. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 