ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face intense competition. The markets for some of our current and potential products are intensely competitive. We face competition from companies that possess both larger sales forces and more capital resources. In addition, there are growing numbers of competitors for certain of our products. Technological change could render our products obsolete or non-competitive. The market for the Company’s products and services are characterized by rapid and substantial technological changes and swiftly evolving industry standards. As industry standards evolve rapidly, the Company may be required to develop new and competitive products to maintain or increase revenue. A competitive product requires substantial planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process stages. The Company can provide no assurance that its products will remain competitive in a rapidly changing environment. In addition, regulations and industry acceptance of new technologies may decelerate or eliminate meaningful revenue. 5 Table of Contents Acquisition of businesses could potentially decrease profit margins and decrease net income. The Company maintains its growth strategy through product development and business and technology acquisition. Businesses acquired by the Company may provide marginal profitability or prove to be unprofitable. Additional risks include the competition among prospective buyers, the potential loss of key employees or clients of the acquired company, and the reallocation of capital from ongoing operating processes. The Company may need additional capital to finance acquisitions. The Company has generated significant growth through acquisitions in recent years. To maintain this rate of growth, the Company may require access to additional sources of capital through debt or equity markets for which there can be no assurance. We are utilizing variable rate financing. We have initiated a credit facility of $7,000,000 which is split between a 36 month reducing line of credit of $3,000,000 and a one year revolving line of credit of $4,000,000. Both of these lines of credits have variable interest rates which are calculated daily at one percent under the national prime rate of the Bank of Oklahoma and are subject to a 3.25 percent floor. A change in interest rate market conditions could increase the Company’s interest costs in the future. We may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our technology and processes. We cannot assure you that the patents we have obtained, or any patents we may obtain, will provide any competitive advantages for our products. We also cannot assure you that those patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, have not already applied for or obtained, or will not seek to apply for or obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products either in the United States or in international markets. We may have product liability claims. Our products involve a risk of product liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance at coverage levels which we believe are adequate, there is no assurance that, if we were to incur substantial liability for product liability claims, insurance would provide adequate coverage against such liability. Our company faces challenges in complying with certain sections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Like many smaller public companies, our Company faces challenges in complying with the internal control requirements (Section 404) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Under current frameworks, compliance in areas such as separation of duties, information system controls, etc. may prove problematic for a smaller company with limited human resources. Our Company may also be forced to incur significant expense in order to comply with the law under current control frameworks for implementation. Changing accounting regulations may affect operating results. Our operating results may be adversely affected by new laws and accounting regulations that have either been recently enacted or which are under consideration, including costs associated with implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 6 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on numerous factors including the following: · the introduction of new products · the level of market acceptance of our products · achievement of research and development milestones · timing of the receipt of orders from, and product shipment to major customers · timing of expenditures · variation in capital spending trends of our customers · timing of the expensing of employee stock options · delays in educating and training our distributors and representatives sales forces · manufacturing or supply delays · product returns · receipt of necessary regulatory approval · costs associated with implementing and maintaining compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act · costs associated with expansion of the Company’s direct sales capabilities · changes in key components by our vendors · cost and timing of acquisitions. Changing industry trends may affect operating results. Various changes within the industries we serve may limit future demand for our products and may include the following: · changes in dialysis reimbursements · mergers within the dialysis provider industry have made the Company more dependent upon fewer large customers for its sales in this industry · price competition for key products · increased competition. Our growth depends on introducing new products and the efforts of third party distributors. Our growth depends on the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, the penetration achieved by the companies which we sell to, and rely on, to distribute and represent our products, and our ability to introduce new and innovative products that meet the needs of the various markets we serve. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to introduce new and innovative products or that the products we introduce, or have introduced, will be widely accepted by the marketplace, or that the companies which we contract with to distribute and represent our products will continue to successfully penetrate our various markets. Our failure to continue to introduce new products or gain wide spread acceptance of our products would adversely affect our operations. We depend on attracting new distributors and representatives for our products. In order to successfully commercialize our products in new markets, we will need to enter into distribution arrangements with companies that can successfully distribute and represent our products into various markets. Our products are extensively regulated which could delay product introduction or halt sales. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Although we have not experienced any substantial regulatory delays to date, there is no assurance that delays will not occur in the future, which could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities to ascertain compliance with “good manufacturing practices” and can subject approved products to additional testing and surveillance programs. Failure to 7 Table of Contents comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal penalties. While we believe that we are currently in compliance, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 