Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we filed with the SEC, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Conditions in the global economy, the markets we serve and the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions and since 2008 the effects of the global financial crisis have adversely impacted the global economy. Slower global economic growth, the credit market crisis and European debt crisis, uncertainty relating to the Euro, high levels of unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, changes in government fiscal and monetary policies, government deficit reduction and budget negotiation dynamics, sequestration, other austerity measures and other challenges affecting the global economy could affect us and our distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: ● reducing demand for our products and services, limiting financing available to our customers, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles; ● increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; and ● increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations, which could increase the risks identified above. Improvement in the global economy remains uneven and uncertain. If slower growth in the global economy or in any of the markets we serve continues for a significant period, if there is a significant deterioration in the global economy or such markets, or if improvements in the global economy don’t benefit the markets we serve, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. PAGE 6 We face competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand and decreased market share. The markets for some of our current and potential products are competitive. Because of the range of products we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including several that possess both larger sales forces and more capital resources. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers, continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually develop new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories, and penetrate new markets, including in developing countries. Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our results of operations, and our expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses. Changing industry trends may affect our results of operations. Various changes within the industries we serve may limit future demand for our products and may include the following: ● changes in dialysis reimbursements; ● mergers within the dialysis provider industry, concentrating our medical meter and solutions sales with a few, large customers; ● mergers within other industries we serve, making us more dependent upon fewer, larger customers for our sales; ● decreased product demand, driven by changes in our customer’s regulatory environments or standard industry practices; and ● price competition for key products. Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new and enhanced products and services and the efforts of third party distributors. Our growth depends on the acceptance of our products and services in the marketplace, the penetration achieved by the companies which we sell to, and rely on, to distribute and represent our products, and our ability to introduce new and innovative products that meet the needs of the various markets we serve. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to continue to introduce new and enhanced products, that the products we introduce, or have introduced, will be widely accepted by the marketplace, or that the companies that we contract with to distribute and represent our products will continue to successfully penetrate our various markets. Our failure to continue to introduce new and enhanced products or gain widespread acceptance of our products and services could adversely affect our results of operations. In order to successfully commercialize our products and services in new markets, we will need to enter into distribution arrangements with companies that can successfully distribute and represent our products and services into various markets. Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions. In addition, competition for acquisitions in our current and anticipated business areas is significant and may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements, or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. PAGE 7 Our acquisition of businesses could negatively impact our results of operations. As an important part of our business strategy, we acquire businesses, some of which may be material. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional details. Our acquisitions involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations: ● any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable; ● we may incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions; ● acquisitions could cause our results of operations to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in any given period, or over the long-term; ● pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact our results of operations in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; ● acquisitions could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address, or for which we may incur additional costs; ● we could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations, financial and other systems, and in retaining key employees and customers; ● we may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition; ● we may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company’s activities. The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations; ● in connection with acquisitions, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results; and ● as a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet. If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets, which could materially impact our results of operations. The contingent consideration from the Bios Acquisition may negatively impact our available cash and results from operations. As part of the Bios Acquisition, we are required to make a contingent consideration payment based on revenue growth related to the acquired assets over a three year earn-out period. The ultimate amount we pay may differ significantly from the liability we recorded at the time of the acquisition. If we are required to pay more than the amount initially recorded, the difference will be recorded as expense in our consolidated statements of income, which could materially impact our results of operations. The contingent consideration from the Amega Acquisition may negatively impact our available cash and results from operations. As part of the Amega Acquisition, we are required to make a contingent consideration payment if the cumulative revenues for our Continuous Monitoring Division for the three years subsequent to the acquisition meet certain levels. The ultimate amount we pay may differ significantly from the liability we recorded at the time of the acquisition. If we are required to pay more than the amount initially recorded, the difference will be recorded as expense in our consolidated statements of income, which could materially impact our results of operations. PAGE 8 If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons, or countries may require compulsory licensing of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property, detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property, and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, our trade secrets and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights, will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights. Several of our products are extensively regulated, which could delay product introduction or halt sales. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Although we have not experienced any substantial regulatory delays to date, we can offer no assurance that delays will not occur in the future, which could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities to ascertain compliance with “good manufacturing practices” and can subject approved products to additional testing and surveillance programs. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal penalties. While we believe that we are currently in compliance, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our business, reputation and our results of operations. Manufacturing or design defects in, unanticipated use of, safety or quality issues with respect to, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products that we make or sell (including in products or components that we source from third parties) can lead to personal injury or property damage. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, and result in product liability claims being brought against us. Recalls and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophic events or environmental conditions may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services or performing other mission-critical functions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or IT systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs or adversely affect our revenues. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for purchase/investment decisions by our customers, and may result in supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy in general or the Industrial Instruments industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and maintaining the equipment we need to produce our product lines. PAGE 9 We may be required to recognize impairment charges that could materially affect our results of operations. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets, and our other long-lived assets as and when required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) to determine whether they are impaired. If they are impaired, we would record appropriate impairment charges. It is possible that we may be required to record significant impairment charges in the future and, if we do so, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in accounting standards could affect our reported financial results. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to our Company from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations for the affected periods. Our business is subject to sales tax in numerous states The application of indirect taxes, such as sales tax, is a complex and evolving issue. A company is required to collect and remit state sales tax from certain of its customers if that company is determined to have “nexus” in a particular state. The determination of nexus varies by state and often requires knowledge of each jurisdiction’s tax case law. The application and implementation of existing, new or future laws could change the states in which we collect and remit sales taxes. Historically, if we have not properly identified states in which we have nexus, we could be held responsible for payment of sales taxes for the years in which it is determined we had nexus. We have determined that we most likely have an obligation for sales taxes in numerous states and as a result, we have recorded accruals of approximately $1,500,000 to cover this exposure. This estimate was based upon facts and circumstances known at such time and our ultimate liability may change as further analysis is completed and state sales tax returns are filed. The ultimate amount due will depend upon a number of factors, including the amount of sales that were made to customers who already paid the tax or who are exempt, the number of years of exposure, and any penalties and interest. If the assumptions used in our estimate are not correct or if it is determined that we have “nexus” in additional states that we have not contemplated, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are utilizing variable rate financing. In February 2012, we entered into a three year agreement (the “Credit Facility”) for a $20,000,000 revolving line of credit (“Line of Credit”) and up to $1,000,000 of letters of credit. Under the Credit Facility, indebtedness bears interest at either: (1) LIBOR, as defined plus an applicable margin, ranging from 1.25% to 2.00%, or (2) the bank’s commercial bank floating rate (“CBFR”), which is the greater of the bank’s prime rate or one month LIBOR + 2.50%, adjusted down, from 1.25% to 0.50%. In April 2014, the Credit Facility was amended to include a $15,000,000 term loan (the “Term Loan”) and to extend the maturity date of the Credit Facility to June 30, 2017. The Term Loan bears interest at LIBOR, as defined plus 2% and requires 11 quarterly principal payments (the first due date being July 15, 2014) in the amount of $750,000 with the remaining balance of principal and accrued interest due on April 15, 2017. A change in interest rate market conditions could increase our interest costs in the future and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial statements. As of May 31, 2014, we had $27,000,000 in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the availability under our Credit Facility, we have the ability to incur an additional $8,000,000 of indebtedness. Our debt level and related debt service obligations can have negative consequences, including (1) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment; (2) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and (3) exposing us to interest rate risk since our debt obligations are at variable rates. We may incur significantly more debt in the future, particularly to finance acquisitions. PAGE 10 We may face continuing challenges in complying with certain sections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Like many public companies, we face challenges in complying with the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Section 404). Under current frameworks, compliance in areas such as separation of duties, information system controls, etc. may prove problematic for a smaller company with limited human resources. We may also be forced to incur on-going expense in order to comply with the law under current control frameworks or if the framework changes. These expenses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 