ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this document that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements and include statements about products in development, results and analyses of clinical trials and studies, research and development expenses, cash expenditures, licensure applications and approvals, and alliances and partnerships, among other matters. You can identify these forward-looking statements because they involve our expectations, intentions, beliefs, plans, projections, anticipations, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of any number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to conduct and obtain successful results from our two Phase III clinical trials for NicVAX; GSK’s failure to exercise its option for and successfully commercialize NicVAX; GSK’s failure to successfully develop and commercialize any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine; our ability to commercialize NicVAX if GSK does not exercise its option for NicVAX; our ability to raise sufficient new capital resources to fully develop and commercialize NicVAX if GSK does not exercise the NicVAX option; our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; our ability to collect any further milestones and royalty payments under the PhosLo and PentaStaph agreements; the ability to obtain regulatory approval for NicVAX and any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine in the U.S. or other markets; our ability to successfully contract with contract manufacturing organizations for the manufacture and supply of NicVAX; our ability to comply with reporting and payment obligations under government rebate and pricing programs; and loss of full use of our net operating loss carry forwards. These factors and others are more fully discussed below. Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our remaining product candidate is in clinical trials and the results from these trials may not be favorable. NicVAX is undergoing Phase III clinical testing involving the conduct of two clinical trials. These trials may not meet their defined endpoints, and, even if they do achieve their endpoints, we cannot be certain that results from future clinical trials will be positive. Unfavorable clinical trial results in any clinical trial will adversely affect our business plans and have an adverse effect on our market valuation and our future business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if one or both of the two Phase III trials for NicVAX are unsuccessful, the FDA may not approve NicVAX for licensure or GSK may not exercise the NicVAX option, either or both of which would adversely affect our business plans, our market valuation, financial condition and results of operations. GSK may not exercise the NicVAX option which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In November 2009, we also entered into an exclusive license and option agreement with GSK for NicVAX which closed on March 5, 2010. Under the agreement, we are responsible for developing the current generation of the vaccine at our cost until the end of the Phase III efficacy and consistency lot trials. At that stage, even if the trials are successful, GSK may not exercise the NicVAX option to acquire the worldwide rights to the vaccine. In this circumstance, we would need to commercialize NicVAX ourselves (which we currently do not have the resources to do) or find another commercialization partner, the likelihood of which will depend on numerous factors, including whether GSK is commercializing a future generation candidate nicotine vaccine. The failure of GSK to exercise the NicVAX option or to successfully commercialize NicVAX after exercising the option, or our inability in such a circumstance to commercialize NicVAX ourselves or find a commercialization partner would have material adverse effect on our market valuation and our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents GSK may not be successful in developing and commercializing the future generation candidate vaccine. Under the option and license agreement for NicVAX, we granted GSK an exclusive worldwide license to develop, commercialize and manufacture certain future generation candidate vaccines for the prevention or treatment of nicotine addiction based on our NicVAX intellectual property (other than NicVAX and NicVAX Alternatives) and using their own proprietary technologies. We may be eligible for milestones and royalties from such development, if successful. If such development and commercialization by GSK is not successful, we will not receive future milestones and royalties related to future generation candidate products which could have a material adverse effect on our business plans, market valuation, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have sufficient resources to fully develop, commercialize and market NicVAX and will require a successful partnership with GSK, another partner or additional financing to do so. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the development of NicVAX, including the cost of clinical trials and manufacturing products for clinical trials as well as the cost of the regulatory process. NicVAX will not generate sales for several years, if at all. We expect that our existing capital resources will enable us to maintain our operations for at least the next 12 months based on current activities; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in realizing sufficient proceeds from our exclusive license and option agreement of NicVAX with GSK or alternative financings to meet our future operating needs. Our inability to do so would have a material adverse effect on our market valuation and our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to successfully manage the activities under our PentaStaph transition services agreement with GSK could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the sale of PentaStaph to GSK in November 2009 we also entered into a transition services agreement under which we agreed to provide certain services to GSK at cost and have the right to receive milestone payments upon achievement of certain milestones. As of February 2010, we achieved two of the four milestones and received $13 million in payments. If we are unable to successfully manage our relationship with GSK, the U.S. military and other third-party vendors, consultants and contractors involved with PentaStaph, or if we are unable to successfully conclude the activities relating to the remaining two milestones, we may not receive the remaining milestone payments. The failure to obtain such milestone payments could have a material adverse effect on our market valuation and our future business, financial condition and results of operations. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the inability to do so could seriously harm our operations. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biopharmaceutical industry depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. In order to induce valuable employees to remain at the Company, in 2006 we created a retention program offering to certain key employees, cash and equity incentives that vest over time. At the end of 2007 and in 2008, we made equity and cash retention awards designed to motivate and retain key employees. The value to our employees of these incentives is significantly affected by our stock price that we cannot control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, manufacturing, research and clinical teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice with a material impact on the Company. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could potentially harm our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles, and a longer history in the industry than we do. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain the right balance of high quality personnel with suitable expertise, our business and ability to continue our business and development programs will be adversely effected. 19 Table of Contents We may not collect any further milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement. We may not collect any further milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement with Fresenius. We received $65.0 million in cash at closing and received an additional $13.0 million of milestones as of March 10, 2010. We can also receive up to $72.5 million in milestone payments and royalties. The royalties relate to sales of a new product formulation over a base amount for 10 years after the closing date. There can be no assurance of the completion of additional milestones or sales of the new product formulation. If any additional milestones are not completed or if there are no sales of the new product formulation, we will not collect the related future milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement. We depend upon third parties to manufacture NicVAX. We depend upon third parties to manufacture our products in development. We entered into various development agreements with Contract Manufacturing Organizations (CMOs) to transfer the manufacturing technologies and know-how of NicVAX. Under these development agreements our CMOs are required to manufacture material to demonstrate their ability to consistently manufacture NicVAX. If the CMOs fail to demonstrate their ability to consistently manufacture NicVAX or the manufactured product does not meet the stringent quality required by the various regulatory agencies for biologics, it may adversely impact GSK’s decision to exercise the option, delay filing of the license submission of NicVAX and adversely affect our business plans, our market valuation, financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of negotiating long-term commercial agreements with these organizations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure such agreements and even if we do secure such agreements, there can be no assurance that the various CMOs will be able to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of quality products on a timely basis to permit continued development of our products and to commercialize our products in development. Creating and transferring a manufacturing process for biopharmaceutical products and manufacturing those products are complicated endeavors often fraught with technical difficulties that can significantly delay or prevent the successful manufacture of those products. At times, contract manufacturers have failed to meet our needs and we have experienced product losses at our contract fill and finisher. The failure of our contract manufacturers to supply us with sufficient amounts of quality product on a timely basis to meet our clinical or commercial needs, or to renew their contracts with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to transfer manufacturing capability to a new contract manufacturer, would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide sufficient protection, and patents of other companies could prevent us from developing and marketing NicVAX. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical firms generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There can be no assurance that existing patent applications will result in issued patents, that we will be able to obtain additional licenses to patents of others or that we will be able to develop additional patentable technology of our own. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by others. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, or, if patents are issued to us, others may design their patents around our patents. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have filed patents or patent applications or received patents relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. Some of these applications or patents may compete with our applications or conflict in certain respects with claims made under our applications. Such a conflict could result in a significant reduction of the 20 Table of Contents coverage of our patents, if issued. In addition, if patents that contain competitive or conflicting claims are issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. See “Business – Patents and Proprietary Rights – Smoking Cessation.” If any licenses are required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require in order to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope or validity of third-party proprietary rights or to defend against any claims that our business infringes on third-party proprietary rights. Patent litigation is expensive and could result in substantial cost to us. The costs of patent litigation and our ability to prevail in such litigation will have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on secrecy to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We maintain strict controls and procedures regarding access to and use of our proprietary technology and processes. However, there can be no assurance that these controls or procedures will not be violated, that we would have adequate remedies for any violation, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We compete with larger, better-financed and more mature pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are capable of developing and marketing products more effectively than we are able to do. Competition in the development of biopharmaceutical products is intense, both from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and is expected to increase. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger research and development and marketing staff and budgets than we have, as well as substantially greater experience in developing products, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing biopharmaceutical products. We compete with our competitors to (i) develop and market products; (ii) acquire products and technologies; and (iii) attract and retain qualified scientific personnel. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective, affordable or profitable than those that we are developing or marketing. In addition, one or more of our competitors may achieve product commercialization of or patent protection for competitive products earlier than us, which would preclude or substantially limit sales of our products. The successful development, commercialization or marketing by any of our competitors of any such products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The market may not be receptive to NicVAX or any future generation candidate nicotine vaccines upon their introduction. There can be no assurance that any of our products in development will achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the clinical efficacy and safety of the products; • the potential advantages over existing treatment methods to the medical community; • results and timing of clinical studies conducted by our competitors; • regulatory approvals; • any limitation of indications in regulatory approvals; • the prices of such products; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. 21 Table of Contents The failure of NicVAX or any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine to gain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies could prevent or delay the sale of NicVAX or any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine. Research, pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. The process of obtaining FDA, foreign regulatory agency or other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease or condition; • the quality of submission; • the clinical efficacy and safety of the product; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the compliance record and controls of the manufacturing facility; • the availability of alternative treatments; and • the risks and relative efficacy benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. Regulatory authorities also may require post-marketing surveillance to monitor potential adverse effects of our products or product candidates. The U.S. Congress, or the FDA in specific situations, can modify the regulatory process. Further, Congress can enact legislation that provides a formalized mechanism in the U.S. to allow for the approval of generic versions of biological products, which currently are not available. Finished products and their components used for commercial sale or in clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP requirements, a series of complex regulations and recommendations in guidance documents that govern manufacturing processes and procedures to assure the quality of our product candidates and products approved for commercial distribution. In addition, the FDA may, at any time, audit or inspect a manufacturing facility involved with the preparation of our products, its components, or our other product candidates for compliance with the regulations applicable to the activities being conducted. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations, the FDA may require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time consuming for us or a third party to implement and that may result in an inability to receive approval, recall of products, delay in approval or restrictions on the product or on the manufacturing post-approval, including the temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales or the temporary or permanent closure of a facility. Material violations of cGMP requirements could result in regulatory sanctions and, in severe cases, could result in a mandated closure of our facility or the facility of a third party manufacturer. Any such remedial measures imposed upon us or third parties with whom we contract could harm our business. Some of our products are in clinical trials. There can be no assurance that we or GSK will be able to obtain the necessary approvals to manufacture or market any of NicVAX or any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals for products under development could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Once approved, a product’s failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecutions which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. New regulations may be enacted and existing regulations, their interpretation and enforcement, are subject to change. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with any regulations. 22 Table of Contents We may be subject to costly and damaging product liability and other claims in connection with the development and commercialization of NicVAX. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are subject to litigation, including class action lawsuits, and governmental and administrative investigations and proceedings, including with respect to product pricing and marketing practices. There can be no assurance that lawsuits will not be filed against us or that we will be successful in the defense of these lawsuits. Defense of suits can be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the outcome, and an adverse result in one or more suits could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance, including products liability and directors and officers insurance, to cover claims against us. Product liability and directors and officers insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of NicVAX progresses, or those existing or future claims against us will be covered by our insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have will offset any claims. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we were unable to obtain directors and officers liability insurance, it could affect adversely our ability to attract and retain directors and officers. There are potential limitations on third-party reimbursement, complex regulations for reimbursement of products and other pricing-related matters that could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize, and impair our ability to generate sufficient revenues from, NicVAX and any future generation candidate vaccine. Our ability or the ability of our partners to commercialize our products and related treatments depends in part upon the availability of, and our ability to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement from government health authorities, private healthcare insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party payer coverage will be available, if at all. There are high levels of regulatory complexity related to reimbursement from U.S. and other government payers that can significantly limit available reimbursement for marketed products. In the U.S., government and other third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the coverage and level of reimbursement for new products approved for marketing by the FDA and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for specific disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting or the impact of any healthcare reform laws could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Within the EU, a number of countries use price controls to limit reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that reimbursement in the U.S., the EU or other markets will be available for NicVAX or any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine, or, if available, will not be reduced in the future, or that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products in development. The unavailability of government or third-party reimbursement or the inadequacy of the reimbursement for medical treatments using NicVAX or any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our federal and state net operating loss carry forwards to reduce taxable income generated in the future could be substantially limited. Our ability to use our net operating losses may be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership changes that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as determined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue 23 Table of Contents Code of 1986, as amended as well as similar state regulations. Depending on the actual amount of any limitation on our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, a significant portion of our future taxable income could be subject to federal and/or state income tax, creating federal and/or state income tax liabilities. Additionally, such limitation may result in our net operating losses expiring before we have the ability to use them. Moreover, the Internal Revenue Service may not agree with the amount or timing of prior losses, thereby further limiting our net operating loss carry forward. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 