ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital in the future, or ever become profitable. In that event, the market price per share of our common stock could decline and you could lose a portion or all of your investment in our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO THE TERMINATION OF OUR CONTRACT WITH BARDA The termination of our contract with BARDA in May 2014 impaired our ability to further develop or commercialize laninamivir octanoate independently, which could significantly harm our financial condition, prospects and business. In March 2011, we were awarded a contract from BARDA for the development of laninamivir octanoate. Under this contract, we were entitled to receive up to $231 million in funding to support the development of laninamivir octanoate under an IND in the U.S. On May 7, 2014 HHS/ASPR/BARDA notified us of its decision to terminate this contract for the convenience of the U.S. Government. We currently believe that we do not have sufficient capital resources to continue to independently fund the future development and commercialization of laninamivir octanoate, therefore, in order fund such development and commercialization, we would need to raise additional capital, or agree to sell or license the rights to, or co-develop laninamivir octanoate with a third party. If, however we are able raise additional capital in the future to support the continued development of laninamivir octanoate, our shareholders may suffer significant dilution, or if we and Daiichi Sankyo license the rights to develop and commercialize laninamivir octanoate outside of Japan to a third party, we may be required to give up a significant portion of the commercial value of laninamivir octanoate to this third party licensee. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise sufficient capital or enter into an acceptable license or similar transaction to further advance the development of laninamivir octanoate. BARDA may not fully reimburse us for all the costs we have incurred to advance the development of laninamivir octanoate under our contract with BARDA or as a result of its termination, which could harm our financial condition or otherwise result in us incurring significant management time and expense to recover such costs through administrative or legal remedies. On May 7, 2014 HHS/ASPR/BARDA notified us of its decision to terminate our contract with BARDA to advance the development of laninamivir octanoate for the convenience of the U.S. Government. As outlined in the U.S. Government’s Federal Acquisition Regulations (Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations) Clause 52.249-6 “Termination (Cost-Reimbursement)”, with particular, but not exclusive, reference to subsections (c) and (f)-(h), the termination-for-convenience provisions in these regulations and our contract with BARDA generally entitle us to be reimbursed for (i) the cost incurred for any work or activities that occurred or were contractually committed to prior to the termination date of May 7, 2014, (ii) any work or activities specifically allowed to continue subsequent to the termination date as described in the termination letter or agreed upon by BARDA after the termination, and for certain wind-down and other settlement costs incurred as a result of the termination of the contract. BARDA has not yet reimbursed us for certain costs that were incurred prior to the termination date, as well as most of the costs incurred after the termination date, as we are working with BARDA and our sub-contractors to reconcile and finalize these invoices and a reach agreement on a final termination settlement. 23 As of June 30, 2014, we had $17.8 million in accounts receivable due from BARDA, which does not include $3.7 million of contract service revenue and accounts receivable relating to amounts that we believe we are entitled to receive reimbursement for under our terminated contract with BARDA and pursuant to applicable government regulations, but for which we potentially may not be fully reimbursed. The terms and conditions contained in the vast majority of our agreements with our sub-contractors under the BARDA agreement are such that we are obligated to pay these sub-contractors only when and to the extent that we are reimbursed by BARDA. As such, to the extent that BARDA does not reimburse us for allowable costs incurred, we may not be obligated to reimburse our subcontractors. In the event BARDA does not agree to fully reimburse us for costs we believe to be reimbursable or we decide to pay vendors for costs we have not yet been reimbursed for, we intend to pursue all available administrative and legal remedies under the FAR and applicable law, which could cause us to incur significant additional time and expense in an attempt to recover these costs. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in being reimbursed or otherwise recovering all the costs we have incurred and believe we are entitled to be reimbursed for in connection with the development of laninamivir octanoate or the termination of the contract, or how long it may take to recover such costs. RISKS RELATED TO RECENT STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL DECISIONS We may be unable to successfully restructure and transition our operations and close our Melbourne, Australia facility in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all, which could increase our cost of doing business, delay the development of our product candidates or harm our operations and business prospects. On June 2, 2014, we announced that following the completion of an operational review of the Company, our Board of Directors has adopted a plan to restructure our operations. The adoption of the plan was the result of a decision by BARDA to terminate its contract with us for the convenience of the U.S. Government. As a result, we are currently restructuring our operations, which we expect will involve a significant reduction in the number of our employees, the transition of a number of key roles and responsibilities from Australia to the U.S., and the closure of our Melbourne, Australia facility. Specifically, we intend to reduce our work force from 66 employees at June 30, 2014 to approximately 20 as of April 1, 2015 and close our Melbourne operation and facility by June 30, 2015. The transition of operations and all clinical, regulatory, financial and legal records and corporate documents from Australia to the U.S. is ongoing. In order to successfully implement this restructuring and transition in a timely manner, if at all, including the migration of our information systems, financial records, reporting systems, internal controls and legal contracts, we may incur additional costs and these activities may consume a significant amount of management’s time. Further, the transition of all research and development and general and administrative responsibilities to a smaller number of employees in the U.S. may result in a delay in the development of our programs or difficulties in managing our business in the event we cannot identify and attract employees with the requisite skills and experience to support the needs of our operation, or otherwise do not satisfactorily implement this transition. As a result of our decision to close our Melbourne, Australia facility by June 30, 2015, we will no longer have laboratories in which to conduct basic research and discovery activities, which may impair our ability to support our current antiviral pipeline, limit the discovery of future product candidates, and could harm our business prospects. Our basic research and discovery activities, including medicinal chemistry, virology, and cell culture assays, have historically been conducted by our research staff in our laboratory facility in Melbourne, Australia. Pursuant to our current restructuring plan, we intend to close this facility by the end of June 2015. Once this facility is closed and our planned reduction in staff is completed, we will not have internal research and development capacity to work on discovery stage projects or support our current pipeline. We currently do not have any plans to build similar laboratory facilities elsewhere or hire staff to conduct discovery, research and certain development activities. To the extent we conduct these activities in the near future, we anticipate that we will outsource them and rely on third-party vendors and consultants, which may require us to incur higher costs. 24 We have adopted a corporate strategy, a component of which reflects our intent to pursue in-licensing, acquisition, co-development, and other possible strategic transactions in order to bolster our pipeline with additional clinical-stage development programs. We may be unable to implement or successfully execute on this component of our strategy on a timely basis, if at all, which could harm our business. The number of clinical-stage development programs available for in-licensing, acquisition or co-development are limited, and there are numerous other large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies competing for these same opportunities. Many of these companies have greater capital resources, experience and capabilities than we have. We may not be able to successfully identify or execute a transaction for any suitable in-licensing, acquisition or co-development candidates, or be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. Any transactions we may complete in the future or potential future strategic decisions we make may disappoint investors and depress the price of our common stock and the value of your investment in our common stock. Further, we may need to raise capital to acquire or support the transaction, incur acquisition fees or other non-recurring charges, and face significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results RISKS RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES Our Phase 2 IGLOO clinical trial of laninamivir octanoate did not achieve its primary efficacy endpoint, which impaired the value of this program and our ability to further develop or commercialize laninamivir octanoate, or license it to a third-party, which could materially harm our financial condition, prospects and business. On August 1, 2014, we announced top-line data from the Phase 2 IGLOO trial. As compared to placebo, neither the 40 mg or 80 mg cohort achieved a statistically significant reduction in the median time to alleviation of influenza symptoms as measured by the Flu-iiQ patient-recorded outcome questionnaire, which was the primary endpoint of the study. The failure to achieve the primary endpoint of this study impaired the value of the program and our ability to continue the development of laninamivir octanoate or for us and our partner Daiichi Sankyo to find a third-party licensee or collaborator that is willing to further develop laninamivir octanoate and may adversely impact our royalty stream on sales of Inavir®. We cannot assure you that laninamivir octanoate can be developed further or otherwise monetized by us in the future. Our success depends largely upon our ability to advance our product candidates through the various stages of drug development. If we are unable to successfully advance or develop our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. Even though we generate royalty revenue from two of our influenza products, all of our product candidates are in early stages of development and their commercial viability remains subject to the successful outcome of current and future preclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing processes, regulatory approvals and the risks generally inherent in the development of pharmaceutical product candidates. Failure to advance the development of one or more of our product candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business. The long-term success of our business ultimately depends upon our ability to advance the development of our product candidates through preclinical studies and clinical trials, appropriately formulate and consistently manufacture them in accordance with strict specifications and regulations, obtain approval of our product candidates for sale by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, and ultimately have our product candidates successfully commercialized by us or a strategic partner or licensee. We cannot assure you that the results of our ongoing or future research, preclinical studies or clinical trials will support or justify the continued development of our product candidates, or that we will ultimately receive approval from the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, to advance the development of our product candidates. 25 Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous regulatory standards of safety, efficacy and manufacturing before we can advance or complete their development and before they can be approved for sale by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy studies and clinical trials, develop acceptable and cost effective manufacturing processes, and obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Despite these efforts, our product candidates may not: ● demonstrate clinically meaningful therapeutic or other medical benefits as compared to a patient receiving no treatment or over existing drugs or other product candidates in development to treat the same patient population; ● be shown to be safe and effective in current and future preclinical studies or clinical trials; ● have the desired therapeutic or medical effects; ● be free from undesirable or unexpected side effects; ● meet applicable regulatory standards; ● be capable of being appropriately formulated and manufactured in commercially suitable quantities or scale and at an acceptable cost; or ● be successfully commercialized by us or by our licensees or collaborators. Even if we demonstrate favorable results in preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials, we cannot assure you that the results of late-stage clinical trials will be sufficient to support the continued development of our product candidates. Many, if not most companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries have experienced significant delays, setbacks and failures in all stages of development, including late-stage clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in preclinical testing or early-stage clinical trials. Accordingly, results from completed preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in late-stage trials. Furthermore, even if the data collected from preclinical studies and clinical trials involving any of our product candidates demonstrate a satisfactory safety and efficacy profile, such results may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the U.S., or other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, which is required to market and sell the product. Clinical trials are risky, lengthy and expensive. We incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials, yet cannot be certain that these tests and trials will demonstrate that a product candidate is effective and well tolerated, or will ever support the approval and commercial sale of a product. For example, clinical trials require adequate supplies of clinical trial material and sufficient patient enrollment. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Even if we, or a licensee or collaborator, if applicable, successfully complete clinical trials for our product candidates, we or they might not file the required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and may not receive marketing approval for the product candidate. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will successfully progress further through the drug development process, or will result in an approved and commercially viable product. If the actual or perceived therapeutic benefits, or the safety or tolerability profile of any of our product candidates are not equal to or superior to other competing anti-infective treatments approved for sale or in clinical development, we may terminate the development of any of our product candidates at any time, and our business prospects and potential profitability could be harmed. We are aware of a number of companies marketing or developing various classes of anti-infective product candidates or products for the treatment of patients infected with influenza, HRV and RSV that are either approved for sale or further advanced in clinical development than ours, such that their time to approval and commercialization may be shorter than that for our product candidates. Accordingly, if at any time we believe that any of our product candidates may not provide meaningful or differentiated therapeutic benefits, perceived or real, equal to or better than our competitor’s products or product candidates, or we believe our product candidates may not have as favorable a safety or tolerability profile as potentially competitive compounds, we may delay or terminate the future development of any of our product candidates. We cannot provide any assurance that the future development of any or our product candidates will demonstrate any meaningful therapeutic benefits over potentially competitive compounds currently approved for sale or in development, or an acceptable safety profile sufficient to justify its continued development. We also anticipate that several drugs, such as oseltamivir phosphate (Tamiflu®) and zanamivir (Relenza®) and peramivir (Rapiacta®) would compete with laninamivir octanoate, if ever approved for sale, for the treatment of influenza. Furthermore, by the time laninamivir octanoate may be approved, these competing products are likely to be generic drugs. Generic drugs are compounds that have no patent protection, and generally have an average selling price substantially lower than drugs that are protected by patents and intellectual property rights. Unless a patented drug can differentiate itself from generic drugs that treat or prevent the same condition or disease in a clinically meaningful manner, the existence of generic competition may impose significant pricing pressure on patented drugs. We may delay or terminate the future development of our product candidates if at any time we believe that they may not provide meaningful therapeutic or safety benefits, over generic drugs. We cannot provide any assurance that late-stage clinical trials of our product candidates that may compete with generic drugs in the future will demonstrate any meaningful therapeutic or safety benefits over these drugs sufficient to justify its continued development. Even if we successfully develop a product candidate and it is approved for sale, we cannot assure you that any real or perceived therapeutic benefits of our drug over generic drugs will result in it being prescribed by physicians or commanding a price higher than the existing generic drugs 26 Our vapendavir product candidate would indirectly compete with drugs approved to reduce the incidence of exacerbations in patients with asthma and COPD, such as fluticasone propionate (Advair®), tiotoprium bromide (Spiriva®), fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (Breo Ellipta®), and roflumilast (Daliresp®). In addition to approved drugs, there are compounds at the clinical development stage, such as inhaled ß-interferon, that if successfully developed for the treatment of HRV infections could compete with vapendavir. We also anticipate that our preclinical RSV compound BTA-C585 will compete with GS-5806 and AL-8176, Phase 2 investigational drugs in development for the treatment of RSV infections in the event any of these compounds are ever approved for sale. Our product candidates may exhibit undesirable side effects when used alone or in combination with other approved pharmaceutical products, which may delay or preclude their development or regulatory approval, or limit their use if ever approved. Throughout the drug development process, we must continually demonstrate the activity, safety and tolerability of our product candidates in order to obtain regulatory approval to further advance their clinical development, or to eventually market them. Even if our product candidates demonstrate adequate biologic activity and clear clinical benefit, any unacceptable side effects or adverse events, when administered alone or in the presence of other pharmaceutical products, may outweigh these potential benefits. We may observe adverse or serious adverse events or drug-drug interactions in preclinical studies or clinical trials of our product candidates, which could result in the delay or termination of their development, prevent regulatory approval, or limit their market acceptance if they are ultimately approved. If the results from preclinical studies or clinical trials of our product candidates, including those that are subject to existing or future license or collaboration agreements, are unfavorable, we could be delayed or precluded from the further development or commercialization of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. In order to further advance the development of, and ultimately receive marketing approval to sell our product candidates, we must conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, as the case may be. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, complex, can take many years to complete, and have highly uncertain outcomes. Delays, setbacks, or failures can and do occur at any time, and in any phase of preclinical or clinical testing, and can result from concerns about safety, tolerability, toxicity, a lack of demonstrated biologic activity or improved efficacy over similar products that have been approved for sale or are in more advanced stages of development, poor study or trial design, and issues related to the formulation or manufacturing process of the materials used to conduct the trials. The results of prior preclinical studies or early-stage clinical trials are not predictive of the results we may observe in late-stage clinical trials. In many cases, product candidates in clinical development may fail to show the desired tolerability, safety and efficacy characteristics, despite having favorably demonstrated such characteristics in preclinical studies or early-stage clinical trials. 27 In addition, we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical studies and the clinical trial process, which could delay or impede our ability to advance the development of, receive marketing approval for, or commercialize our product candidates, including, but not limited to: ● communications with the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities in different countries, regarding the scope or design of a trial or trials, or placing the development of a product candidate on clinical hold until questions or issues are satisfactorily resolved; ● regulatory authorities or IRB’s not authorizing us to commence or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; ● enrollment in our clinical trials being delayed, or proceeding at a slower pace than we expected, because we have difficulty recruiting participants or because participants drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipated; ● our third-party contractors, upon whom we rely to conduct preclinical studies, clinical trials and the manufacturing of our clinical trial materials, failing to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; ● having to suspend or ultimately terminate a clinical trial if participants are being exposed to unacceptable health or safety risks; ● regulatory authorities or IRBs requiring that we hold, suspend or terminate our preclinical studies and clinical trials for various reasons, including non-compliance with regulatory requirements; and ● the supply or quality of material necessary to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials being insufficient, inadequate or unavailable. Even if the data collected from preclinical studies or clinical trials involving our product candidates demonstrate a satisfactory tolerability, safety and efficacy profile, such results may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the U.S., or other similar regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions, which is required for us to market and sell the product. Our product candidates are generally being developed to treat seasonal respiratory infections, which could cause their clinical development to be more complex, take longer and cost more to complete than product candidates intended for non-seasonal infections. Influenza, HRV, and RSV are respiratory infections that generally occur more frequently in certain months of the year in a particular geography. Accordingly, it is more efficient to conduct clinical trials in patients with these respiratory infections during the months in which the infections are more prevalent, and these trials generally cannot be as efficiently conducted year-round in any one region of the world. The seasonality in the incidence of these respiratory infections may require us to conduct clinical trials in both the northern and southern hemispheres in order to fully enroll these trials on a timely basis. Seasonality or variability in the incidence of these infections increases the complexity of our trial designs, exposes us to additional regulatory oversight in more countries, and generally increases the cost and time to conduct these trials. In the event that the severity, nature and extent of influenza in any given year or season is moderate to mild, we may not be able to recruit a sufficient number of patients or clearly demonstrate the efficacy of laninamivir octanoate in a placebo-controlled clinical trial, which could materially harm our business prospects and financial condition. To support a NDA filing, we expect that we would need to conduct several additional placebo-controlled clinical trials of laninamivir octanoate with the primary efficacy endpoints designed to demonstrate in a statistically significant manner that laninamivir octanoate has superior clinical benefit in reducing the duration of certain influenza symptoms as compared to placebo. In the event the severity, nature and extent of influenza and its correlate symptoms are mild during the seasons in which we are conducting our clinical trials, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in the trial in a timely manner or demonstrate a statistical difference in outcomes between those patients that receive laninamivir octanoate and those that receive placebo due to the milder symptoms. This could result in the clinical trial failing to achieve its primary end point, which may cause us to have to repeat the trial, or BARDA to terminate our contract, either of which would materially harm our business prospects and financial condition. 28 If third-party contract manufacturers, upon whom we rely to formulate and manufacture our product candidates, do not perform, fail to manufacture according to our specifications, or fail to comply with strict government regulations, our preclinical studies or clinical trials could be adversely affected and the development of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated, or we could incur significant additional expenses. We do not currently own any manufacturing facilities. We have historically used third-party contract manufacturers and we intend to continue to rely on third-party on these contractors for the foreseeable future, to formulate, manufacture, fill and package our product candidates. Our reliance on these third-party contract manufacturers, which in some cases are sole sourced, exposes us to a number of risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of our preclinical studies or clinical trials, or the regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates, result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues in the future. Some of these risks include, but are not limited to: ● our contract manufacturers failing to develop an acceptable formulation to support late-stage clinical trials for, or the commercialization of, our product candidates; ● our contract manufacturers failing to manufacture our product candidates according to their own standards, our specifications, cGMPs or regulatory guidelines, or otherwise manufacturing material that we or regulatory authorities deem to be unsuitable for our clinical trials or commercial use; ● our contract manufacturers being unable to increase the scale of or the capacity for, or reformulate the form of our product candidates, which may cause us to experience a shortage in supply, or cause the cost to manufacture our product candidates to increase. We cannot assure you that our contract manufacturers will be able to manufacture our product candidates at a suitable scale, or we will be able to find alternative manufacturers acceptable to us that can do so; ● our contract manufacturers placing a priority on the manufacture of other customers’ or their own products, rather than ours; ● our contract manufacturers failing to perform as agreed or exiting from the contract manufacturing business; and ● our contract manufacturers’ plants being closed as a result of regulatory sanctions or a natural disaster. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical drug products are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) and corresponding state and other foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with FDA-mandated cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over our third-party contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards and accordingly, failure by our third-party manufacturers, or us, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us or the manufacturer, which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In the event that we need to change our third-party contract manufacturers, our preclinical studies, clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, adversely affected or terminated, or such a change may result in the need for us to incur significantly higher costs, which could materially harm our business. Due to various regulatory restrictions in the U.S. and many other countries, as well as potential capacity constraints on manufacturing that occur from time-to-time in our industry, various steps in the manufacture of our product candidates are sole-sourced to certain contract manufacturers. In accordance with cGMPs, changing manufacturers may require the re-validation of manufacturing processes and procedures, and may require further preclinical studies or clinical trials to show comparability between the materials produced by different manufacturers. Changing our current or future contract manufacturers may be difficult, if not impossible for us, and could be extremely costly if we do make such a change, which could result in our inability to manufacture our product candidates for an extended period of time and a delay in the development of our product candidates. Further, in order to maintain our development timelines in the event of a change in a third-party contract manufacturer, we may incur significantly higher costs to manufacture our product candidates. If third-party vendors, upon whom we rely to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials, do not perform or fail to comply with strict regulations, these studies or trials may be delayed, terminated, or fail, or we could incur significant additional expenses, which could materially harm our business. We have limited resources dedicated to designing, conducting and managing preclinical studies and clinical trials. We have historically relied, and intend to continue to rely, on third parties, including clinical research organizations, consultants and principal investigators, to assist us in designing, managing, conducting, monitoring and analyzing the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We rely on these vendors and individuals to perform many facets of the clinical development process on our behalf, including conducting preclinical studies, the recruitment of sites and patients for participation in our clinical trials, maintenance of good relations with the clinical sites, and ensuring that these sites are conducting our trials in compliance with the trial protocol and applicable regulations. If these third parties fail to perform satisfactorily, or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates may be delayed or prove unsuccessful. 29 Further, the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, may inspect some of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials or our third-party vendors’ sites to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to GCP or similar regulations. If we or a regulatory authority determine that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with, or have not conducted our clinical trials according to applicable regulations, we may be forced to delay, repeat or terminate such clinical trials. We have limited capacity for managing clinical trials, which could delay or impair our ability to initiate or complete clinical trials of our product candidates on a timely basis and materially harm our business. We have limited capacity to recruit and manage all of the clinical trials necessary to obtain approval by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries. By contrast, larger pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies often have substantial staff or departments with extensive experience in conducting clinical trials with multiple product candidates across multiple indications. In addition, these companies may have greater financial resources to compete for the same clinical investigators, sites and patients that we are attempting to recruit for our clinical trials. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage that could delay the initiation, recruitment, timing and completion of our clinical trials and obtaining of marketing approvals, if achieved at all, for our product candidates. If we are unable to attract or retain key employees, advisors or consultants, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all, or otherwise manage our business effectively. We have increasingly adopted an operating model that relies on the outsourcing of a number of key responsibilities and activities to third-party consultants and contract research and manufacturing organizations in order to advance the development of our product candidates. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to retain highly qualified key management, personnel and directors to develop, implement and execute our business strategy and operations, and oversee the activities of our vendors and consultants, as well as any academic and corporate advisors or consultants that may assist us in this regard. We are currently highly dependent upon the efforts of our management team to accomplish this. In order to advance the development of our product candidates, we need to retain and be able to recruit certain key personnel, consultants or advisors with experience in a number of disciplines, including but not limited to, research and development, product development, clinical trials, medical affairs, government regulation of pharmaceutical products, quality control and assurance, formulation and manufacturing, business development, accounting, finance, human resources and information systems. Although we have not experienced material difficulties in retaining key personnel in the past, we may not be able to continue to do so in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If we lose any key employees, or are unable to retain qualified key personnel, directors, advisors or consultants, the development of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated and our business may be harmed. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or develop innovative products, which could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Key competitive factors in our industry include, among others, the ability to successfully advance the development of a product candidate through preclinical and clinical trials; the efficacy, toxicology, safety, resistance or cross-resistance, interaction or dosing profile of a product or product candidate; the timing and scope of marketing approvals, if ever achieved; reimbursement rates for and the average selling price of competing products and pharmaceutical products in general; the availability of raw materials and qualified contract manufacturing and manufacturing capacity to produce our product candidates; relative manufacturing costs; establishing, maintaining and protecting our intellectual property and patent rights; and sales and marketing capabilities. 30 We face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of whom have substantially greater resources. In Japan, zanamivir (Relenza®) and laninamivir octanoate (Inavir®) compete with oseltamivir phosphate (Tamiflu®) and peramivir (Rapiacta®). A similar situation would likely exist if laninamivir octanoate is ever approved and marketed in territories outside Japan. We anticipate that vapendavir would indirectly compete with drugs approved to reduce the incidence of exacerbations in patients with asthma and COPD, such as fluticasone propionate (Advair®), tiotoprium bromide (Spiriva®), fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (Breo Ellipta®), and roflumilast (Daliresp®). In addition to approved drugs, there are compounds at the clinical development stage, such as inhaled ß-interferon, that if successfully developed for the treatment of HRV infections could compete with vapendavir. Our preclinical RSV compound BTA-C585 would compete with GS-5806 (Gilead) and AL-8176 (Alios), both of which are investigational drugs in Phase 2 development for the treatment of RSV infections. Developing pharmaceutical product candidates is a highly competitive, expensive and risky activity with a long business cycle. Many organizations, including the large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies that have existing products on the market or in clinical development that may compete with our product candidates, have substantially more resources than we have, as well as much greater capabilities and experience than we have in research and discovery, designing and conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, operating in a highly regulated environment, formulating and manufacturing drug substances, products and devices, and marketing and sales. Our competitors may be more successful than we are in obtaining regulatory approvals for their product candidates and achieving broad market acceptance once they are approved. Our competitors’ products or product candidates may be more effective, have fewer adverse effects, be more convenient to administer, have a more favorable resistance profile, or be more effectively marketed and sold than any product we, or our potential future licensees or collaborators, may develop or commercialize. New drugs or classes of drugs from competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to successfully develop them or, if approved, before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing them. We anticipate that we or our potential future licensees or collaborators will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs and drug classes enter the market and advanced technologies or new drug targets become available. If our product candidates do not demonstrate any meaningful competitive advantages over existing products, or new products or product candidates, we may terminate the development or commercialization of our product candidates at any time. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing product candidates or products that are more effective, safer, less expensive or easier to administer than ours. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we can. Companies that can complete clinical trials, obtain required marketing approvals and commercialize their products before their competitors do so may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and marketing exclusivity rights that could delay the ability of competitors to market certain products. We also face, and expect that we will continue to face, intense competition from other companies in a number of other areas, including (i) attracting larger pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies to enter into collaborative arrangements with us to acquire, license or co-develop our product candidates, (ii) identifying and obtaining additional clinical-stage development programs to bolster our pipeline, (iii) attracting investigators and clinical sites capable of conducting our clinical trials, and (iv) recruiting patients to participate in our clinical trials. We cannot assure you that product candidates resulting from our research and development efforts, or from joint efforts with our potential future licensees or collaborators, will be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ existing products or product candidates in development. We may be unable to successfully develop a product candidate that is the subject of an existing or future license agreement or collaboration if our licensee or collaborator does not perform or fulfill its contractual obligations, delays the development of our product candidate, or terminates our agreement. We expect to continue to enter into and rely on license and collaboration agreements, or other similar business arrangements with third parties, to further develop and/or commercialize some or all of our existing and future product candidates. Such licensees or collaborators may not perform as agreed upon or anticipated, may fail to comply with strict regulations, or may elect to delay or terminate their efforts in developing or commercializing our product candidates even though we have met our obligations under the arrangement. 31 A majority of the potential revenue from existing and any future licenses and collaborations we may enter into will likely consist of contingent payments, such as payments received for achieving development or regulatory milestones, and royalties payable on the sales of approved products. Milestone and royalty revenues that we may receive under these licenses and collaborations will depend primarily upon our licensee’s or collaborator’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, our licensees or collaborators may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize products developed under our existing or future collaborations using our technologies, which could reduce the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive, if any. In many cases, we will not be directly or closely involved in the development or commercialization of our product candidates that are subject to licenses or collaborations and, accordingly, we will depend largely on our licensees or collaborators to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our licensees or collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates because they: ● do not allocate the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited capital resources, or the belief that other product candidates or internal programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval, or may potentially generate a greater return on investment; ● do not have sufficient resources necessary to fully support the product candidate through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization; ● are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; or ● prioritize other programs or otherwise diminish their support for developing and/or marketing our product candidate or product due to a change in management, business operations or strategy. Should any of these events occur, we may not realize the full potential or intended benefit of our license or collaboration arrangements, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, a licensee or collaborator may decide to pursue the development of a competitive product candidate developed outside of our agreement with them. Conflicts may also arise if there is a dispute about the progress of, or other activities related to, the clinical development or commercialization of a product candidate, the achievement and payment of a milestone amount, the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the arrangement, or other license agreement terms. If a licensee or collaborator fails to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates for any of these reasons, we may not be able to replace them with another third-party willing to develop and commercialize our product candidates under similar terms, if at all. Similarly, we may disagree with a licensee or collaborator as to which party owns newly or jointly-developed intellectual property. Should an agreement be revised or terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the anticipated benefits of the arrangement, we may not be able to obtain certain development support or revenues that we anticipated receiving. We may also be unable to obtain, on terms acceptable to us, a license from such collaboration partner to any of its intellectual property that may be necessary or useful for us to continue to develop and commercialize the product candidate. We cannot assure you that any product candidates will emerge from any existing or future license or collaboration agreements we may enter into for any of our product candidates. RISKS RELATED TO COMMERCIAL MATTERS We have a history of incurring net losses and we may never achieve profitability. We have a history of incurring net losses, some of which are significant. We expect to incur additional net losses in the near-term, and these losses could increase as our research and development efforts progress. To become profitable, we, or our licensees or collaborators if applicable, must successfully manufacture and develop product candidates, receive regulatory approval, successfully commercialize and/or enter into profitable agreements with other parties and maintain existing and/or obtain additional intellectual property rights. It could be several years, if ever, before we receive significant royalties from any future license agreements or revenues directly from the sale of any of our product candidates. 32 Royalty revenues from Relenza® and Inavir® are unpredictable and subject to the seasonal incidence and severity of influenza, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We currently earn royalty revenue from the net sales of Relenza® and Inavir®, which are marketed by our licensees. Although the royalty rates paid to us by our licensees are fixed at a proportion of our licensees’ net sales of these products, our periodic and annual revenues from these royalties have historically been variable and subject to fluctuation based on the seasonal incidence and severity of influenza. In addition, returns of products to our licensees that were sold in prior years are taken into account in the calculation of net sales for purposes of determining the royalty revenue we receive and the amount of such returns are generally unpredictable. We cannot predict with any certainty what our royalty revenues are likely to be in any given year. If safety, tolerability, resistance, drug-drug interactions, or efficacy concerns should arise with Relenza® or Inavir®, our future royalty revenue may be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition and business. We currently earn royalty revenue from Relenza® and Inavir®, which are marketed by our licensees. Data supporting the marketing approvals and forming the basis for the safety warnings in the product labels for these products were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration in limited patient populations and, in some cases, from post-approval use. As these marketed products are used over longer periods of time and by more patients, some with underlying health problems or taking other medicines, new issues such as safety, tolerability, resistance or drug-drug interaction issues could arise, which may require our licensees to provide additional warnings or contraindications on their product labels, or otherwise narrow the approved indications. Further, additional information from ongoing research or clinical trials of these products that raise any doubts or concerns about their efficacy may arise. If serious safety, tolerability, resistance, drug-drug interaction, efficacy, or any other concerns or issues arise with respect to these marketed products, sales of these products could be impaired, limited or abandoned by our licensees or by regulatory authorities, in which case our royalty revenue would decrease. If government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate reimbursement or coverage for our products or those that are developed through licenses or collaborations, our revenues and potential for profitability may be harmed. In the U.S. and most foreign markets, product revenues or related royalty revenue, and therefore the inherent value of our products, will depend largely upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payers for such products. Third-party payers include government health administration authorities, managed-care organizations, private health insurers and other similar organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly examining the cost effectiveness of medical products, services and pharmaceutical drugs and challenging the price of these products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Further, the comparative effectiveness of new products over existing therapies and the assessment of other non-clinical outcomes are increasingly being considered in the decision by payers to establish reimbursement rates. We, or our licensees or collaborators if applicable, may also be required to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any products we or our licensees or collaborators may successfully develop will be reimbursed in part, or at all, by any third-party payers in any country. Many governments continue to propose legislation designed to expand the coverage, yet reduce the cost, of healthcare, including pharmaceutical products. In many foreign markets, governmental agencies control the pricing of prescription drugs. In the U.S., significant changes in federal health care policy were approved over the past several years and continue to evolve, and will likely result in reduced reimbursement rates for many pharmaceutical products in the future. We expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement increased government control over reimbursement rates of pharmaceutical products. In addition, we expect that increasing emphasis on managed care and government intervention in the U.S. healthcare system will continue to put downward pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products there. Government cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or our licensees or collaborators may receive for any of our products that may be approved for sale in the future, which would limit our revenues and profitability. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products may change before our product candidates are approved for sale, which could further limit or eliminate their reimbursement rates. Further, social and patient activist groups, whose goal it is to reduce the cost of healthcare, and in particular the price of pharmaceutical products, may also place downward pressure on the price of these products, which could result in decreased prices of our products. 33 If any product candidates that we develop independently, or through licensees or collaborators if applicable, are approved but do not gain meaningful acceptance in their intended markets, we are not likely to generate significant revenues. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and we or a licensee or collaborator obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market them in the future, they may not gain market acceptance or broad utilization among physicians, patients or third-party payers. The degree of market acceptance that any of our products may achieve will depend on a number of factors, including: ● the efficacy or perceived clinical benefit of the product, if any, relative to existing therapies; ● the timing of market approval and the existing market for competitive drugs, including the presence of generic drugs; ● the level of reimbursement provided by third-party payers to cover the cost of the product to patients; ● the net cost of the product to the user or third-party payer; ● the convenience and ease of administration of the product; ● the product’s potential advantages over existing or alternative therapies; ● the actual or perceived safety of similar classes of products; ● the actual or perceived existence, incidence and severity of adverse effects; ● the effectiveness of sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and ● the scope of the product label approved by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that physicians will choose to prescribe or administer our products, if approved, to the intended patient population. If our products do not achieve meaningful market acceptance, or if the market for our products proves to be smaller than anticipated, we may never generate significant revenues. If we fail to enter into or maintain collaborations or other sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties to commercialize our product candidates, or otherwise fail to establish marketing and sales capabilities in the future, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. We currently have no infrastructure to support the commercialization of any of our product candidates, and have little, if any, experience in the commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Therefore, if we successfully develop any product candidate, and it is ultimately approved for sale, our future profitability will depend largely on our ability to access, arrange or develop suitable marketing and sales capabilities. Other than for laninamivir octanoate, which if approved, could potentially be sold in the U.S. or other federal governments for stock-piling measures, we anticipate that we will need to establish relationships with other companies, through license, collaboration, commercialization or similar marketing and sales agreements, to successfully commercialize and market our product candidates in the U.S. and in other countries around the world. To the extent that we enter into these types of agreements with other companies to sell, promote or market our products in the U.S. or abroad, our product revenues, which may be in the form of indirect revenue, a royalty, or a split of profits, may depend largely on the efforts of the other party, which may not be successful. In the event we decide to develop our own sales force and marketing capabilities, this may result in us incurring significant upfront costs to do so before we may generate any significant product revenues. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified third parties or marketing or sales personnel, or be able to establish marketing capabilities or an effective sales force. Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could increase our costs or lower our revenues. We collect and pay a portion of our revenue and expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our operating results. We retain the majority of our cash and cash equivalents in U.S. dollars and utilize foreign currency accounts, particularly in Australia, for collection and payment of revenues and expenses for our subsidiaries. Any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 34 Unless we reach an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo and Hovione with respect to commercial rights to laninamivir octanoate outside of Japan, disputes between us and these parties may occur and could adversely affect our financial condition and business prospects. Pursuant to our 2003 license and collaboration agreement with Daiichi Sankyo, if the parties agree to license the commercial rights to laninamivir octanoate in territories outside Japan to a third-party licensee, we share all licensing revenue equally with Daiichi Sankyo. The agreement does not, however, specifically address the respective rights or obligations of, or any consideration between, the parties in the event that either we or Daiichi Sankyo directly market laninamivir octanoate in territories outside Japan and a license has not been granted to a third-party licensee anywhere in the world. Further, the license agreement that we and Daiichi Sankyo collectively entered into with Hovione for use of the TwinCaps® dry powder inhaler provides us and Daiichi Sankyo with the exclusive right to import, export, make, use, and distribute for sale the drug product comprised of laninamivir octanoate and the TwinCaps® dry powder inhaler (“Drug Product”) worldwide in the field of preventing and/or treating influenza infections. The contract specifies what consideration is payable to Hovione in the event Drug Product is marketed by a third-party licensee other than us or Daiichi Sankyo outside of Japan. The agreement does not, however, specifically address the respective rights or obligations of, or any consideration between, the parties in the event that either we or Daiichi Sankyo directly market Drug Product in territories outside Japan. The consideration potentially payable to Daiichi Sankyo under our license agreement with it, if any, or to Hovione under our license with it, related to direct sales of laninamivir octanoate we may generate in territories outside of Japan is uncertain. If we fail to reach a mutually acceptable commercial agreement in the future with either Daiichi Sankyo, Hovione, or both with respect to the development and marketing of laninamivir octanoate or drug product of Japan, disputes could result, which could further result in arbitration, litigation or other legal proceedings, or delay our ability to generate significant revenue from the sale of such products outside Japan. Such proceedings can be expensive and consume a significant amount of our management’s time. We cannot assure you we will reach a satisfactory commercial agreement with Daiichi Sankyo or Hovione in the future. Under our previous contract with BARDA, our operations, and those of our contractors, continue to be subject to audit by the U.S. government, and a negative outcome of such an audit could adversely affect our financial condition and business. U.S. Government agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) and the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors and recipients of federal grants. These agencies evaluate a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Notwithstanding the fact that our contract with BARDA was terminated by the U.S. Government for its convenience, the U.S. Government has not yet reimbursed us for all of the costs we have incurred or expect to incur to develop laninamivir octanoate under that contract. Accordingly, we remain subject to the audit provisions under the terminated contract. The HHS and the DCAA also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must generally be repaid. If an audit identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to: ● termination of contracts; ● forfeiture of profits; ● suspension of payments; ● fines; and ● suspension or prohibition from conducting business with the U.S. Government. 35 Our employees, representatives or agents may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could expose us to financial, reputational or other harm. Our employees, representatives or agents may engage in any fraud or other improper activities, including but not limited to: ● complying with FDA regulations or similar regulations of similar regulatory authorities in other countries; ● providing accurate information to the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries; ● complying with manufacturing standards we or the FDA have established; ● complying with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations or similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable foreign regulatory authorities; or ● reporting financial information or data accurately. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent these activities may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Laws and regulations governing international operations may preclude us from developing, manufacturing and selling certain product candidates outside of the United States and require us to develop and implement costly compliance programs. Because we have operations outside of the U.S., we must comply with numerous laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate. The creation and implementation of international business practices compliance programs is costly and such programs are difficult to enforce, particularly where reliance on third parties is required. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the U.S. to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the company, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced primarily by the Department of Justice, while the SEC is involved with enforcement of the books and records provisions of the FCPA. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical studies and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions. Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the U.S., or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. Our operations outside of the U.S. require us to dedicate additional resources to comply with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling certain products and product candidates outside of the U.S., which could limit our growth potential and increase our development costs. 36 The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties, including suspension or debarment from government contracting. Violation of the FCPA can result in significant civil and criminal penalties. Indictment alone under the FCPA can lead to suspension of the right to do business with the U.S. Government until the pending claims are resolved. Conviction for a violation of the FCPA can result in long-term disqualification as a government contractor. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy any of our obligations under laws governing international business practices would have a negative impact on our operations and harm our reputation and ability to procure government contracts. The SEC also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on U.S. exchanges for violations of the FCPA's accounting provisions. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY If we are unable to adequately protect or expand our intellectual property related to our products, or current or future product candidates, our business prospects could be materially harmed. Our business success depends in part on our ability to: ● obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights; ● protect our trade secrets; and ● prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights or patents. We can protect our proprietary intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to ultimately enforce our patents or proprietary rights, or avoid infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. Any issued patents that we own or otherwise have rights to may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide us with the protection against competitors that we anticipate. The degree of future protection for our proprietary intellectual property rights is uncertain because issued patents and other legal means of establishing proprietary rights afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Our future patent position will be influenced by the following factors: ● we, or our licensors, may not have been the first to discover the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to engage in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; ● our, or our licensors’, pending patent applications may be denied and may not result in issued patents; ● our, or our licensors’, issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; and ● third parties may develop intellectual property that circumvents our or our licensors’ patent claims or design competitive intellectual property and ultimately product candidates that fall outside the scope of our or our licensors’ patents. Due to the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review and approval of a product candidate, it is possible that before a product candidate of ours may be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire, or such patent rights may remain in force for only a short period following marketing approval. We currently rely on certain patents to provide us and our licensees with exclusive rights for certain of our products. When all patents underlying a license expire, our revenue from that license may cease, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace it with revenue from new or existing licenses. Our composition of matter patents relating to Relenza® will expire in December 2014 in the U.S., May 2015 in Australia, 2016 in the major countries of the European Union, and July 2019 in Japan; however, as long as a current U.S. patent application (08/737,141) is pending, we will be eligible to receive royalties on the net sales from Relenza® in the U.S. There can be no assurance that the pending patent application will be approved, or when that may occur, if ever. 37 The composition of matter patent relating to the structure of laninamivir octanoate expires in 2017 in the U.S., the E.U. and Japan. The patent relating to hydrates and the crystalline form of laninamivir octanoate that is used in the product expires in 2021 (without extensions) in the U.S. and EU and in 2024 in Japan. The patent relating to the dry powder inhaler device used for Inavir®, known as TwinCaps®, expires in 2029 in the U.S., and in 2027 in the EU and Japan. Patent claims in the U.S. covering the phosphate salt form of vapendavir will expire in 2022 without extensions, and at the end of 2021 in the EU and Japan in the absence of marketing approval prior to this date. We filed a patent application for a free-base formulation of vapendavir in 2014, and, if issued, this patent would expire in 2034, without extensions. Composition of matter claims relating to our RSV fusion inhibitor BTA-C585 will begin to expire in the U.S., EU, and Japan in 2031. Patent expirations will in all likelihood adversely affect our ability to protect or maintain our direct product or royalty revenue. Patent rights may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with or developing similar technologies or approaches to ours. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., and certain countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, we may not be able to prevent a third party from infringing our patents in a country that does not recognize or enforce patent rights, or that imposes compulsory licenses on or restricts the prices of drugs. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We may need to in-license certain technologies to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we or our licensors do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the products or technologies licensed, or may otherwise be limited in scope. In addition, we may not have total control over the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license from others. Accordingly, we may be unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any pending or issued patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. We cannot assure you of the degree of protection that will be afforded by any of our issued or pending patents, or those licensed by us. We cannot be sure that any patents will be issued from the patent applications we own or have licensed or, should any patents issue, that we will be provided with adequate protection against potentially competitive products. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that patents issued or licensed to us will be of any commercial value, or that private parties or competitors will not successfully challenge these patents or circumvent our patent position in the U.S. or abroad. In the absence of adequate patent protection, our business may be adversely affected by competitors who develop comparable technology or products. If a third-party claims we are infringing on its intellectual property rights, we could incur significant expenses, or be prevented from further developing or commercializing our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. Our success will also depend on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights of third parties. This is generally referred to as having the “freedom to operate.” The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property claims, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, both in the U.S. and internationally, involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are lengthy, costly and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. We may become involved in protracted and expensive litigation in order to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others, or to determine whether we have the freedom to operate with respect to the intellectual property rights of others. Patent applications in the U.S. are, in most cases, maintained in secrecy until approximately 18 months after the patent application is filed. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to product candidates similar to ours may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event that a third party has also filed a patent application covering our product candidate or other claims, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference proceeding, in the USPTO or similar proceedings in other countries, to determine the priority of invention. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal fees and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing the development and commercialization of a product candidate and may be subject to injunctions and/or damage awards. 38 In the future, the USPTO or a foreign patent office may grant patent rights to our product candidates or other claims to third parties. Subject to the issuance of these future patents, the claims of which will be unknown until issued, we may need to obtain a license or sublicense to these rights in order to have the appropriate freedom to further develop or commercialize them. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we need to obtain such licenses or sublicenses, but are unable to do so, we could encounter delays in the development of our product candidates, or be prevented from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates at all. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent and do not have the freedom to operate, we could be subject to injunctions, and/or compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. In cases where we have in-licensed intellectual property, our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such agreements could harm our business. It is becoming common for third parties to challenge patent claims on any successfully developed product candidate or approved drug. If we or our licensees or collaborators become involved in any patent litigation, interference or other legal proceedings, we could incur substantial expense, and the efforts and attention of our technical and management personnel could be significantly diverted. A negative outcome of such litigation or proceedings may expose us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling our product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is obtainable, or prior to us filing patent applications on any inventions we may make. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate and academic partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of these agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we may not be able to assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secret is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submissions, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary fee payments and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitive position would be adversely affected. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees, including our senior management, were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. These employees typically executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements in connection with their previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. We are not aware of any threatened or pending claims related to these matters, but in the future litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 39 RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR COMMON STOCK Our revenue, expenses and results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations, in particular over the next several quarters as we continue to work with BARDA to finalize invoices and a final termination settlement, which will make it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. Our revenues have historically been highly variable. Royalty revenues we earn are derived from the net sales of products used for the treatment and/or prevention of influenza. Influenza as a disease is seasonal and highly unpredictable, and sales of these products fluctuate in line with the nature and extent of the incidence and severity of influenza each season. Payments potentially due to us under our existing or any future collaborative arrangements, including any milestone and royalty payments, are generally intermittent in nature and are subject to significant fluctuation in both timing and amount, or may never be earned or paid at all. In addition, the returns of products to our licensees are taken into account in the calculation of net sales for purposes of calculating the royalty revenue we receive and the amount of such returns are in general unpredictable. Further, we anticipate that we will continue to record revenue and costs under our recently-terminated contract with BARDA over the next several quarters. Revenue under this contract in any given period will be based on the reimbursable costs we incur or record during that period, or on changes in estimates we may make with respect to any revenue reserves we have recorded in prior periods, all of which we expect will continue to fluctuate significantly from month to month and quarter-to-quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenue may be highly variable, and comparisons to previous periods may be difficult to make. Our historical and current revenues may not be indicative of our ability to achieve additional payment-generating milestones or royalties in the future, or vice versa. We expect that our operating results will also vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year as a result of the initiation and success or failure of preclinical studies or clinical trials we undertake, the timing of the formulation and manufacture of our product candidates, or other development-related factors and activities, as well as the restructuring of our operations that we are currently implementing. Accordingly, our revenues, expenses and results of operations for any period, particularly over the next several quarters, may not be comparable to the revenues, expenses or results of operations for any other period. The reporting requirements of being a company that is publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) increase our overall operating costs and subject us to increased costs and regulatory risk that may negatively impact our business or our ability to raise capital in the future. As a company that is publicly-traded on NASDAQ, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and the listing requirements of NASDAQ. Further, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, management must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditor must perform its own assessment on our internal control over financial reporting. This testing is expensive and requires the attention of our limited management resources. The various financial reporting, legal, corporate governance and other obligations associated with being a company that is publicly traded on NASDAQ in the U.S. require us to incur significant expenditures and place additional demands and requirements on our board of directors, executive officers, and other administrative, operational and financial personnel and resources. If we are unable to comply with these requirements in a timely and effective manner, we and/or our executive officers may be subject to sanctions by the SEC. We expect that we will continue to incur additional expenses as a result of being a company that is publicly traded on NASDAQ. 40 The price of our common stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment in us could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including but not limited to: ● our ability to successfully advance our product candidates through preclinical and clinical development; ● disclosure of any favorable or unfavorable data from our preclinical studies or clinical trials, or other regulatory developments concerning our preclinical studies or clinical trials, the formulation and manufacturing of our product candidates, or those of our competitors; ● the approval or commercialization of new products by us or our competitors, and the disclosure thereof; ● not negotiating a favorable final termination settlement associated with the termination of the contract we had with BARDA; ● novel scientific innovations by us or our competitors; ● rumors relating to us or our competitors; ● public concern about the safety or tolerability of our products, product candidates, or similar classes of compounds; ● litigation to which we may become subject; ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual revenue or operating results; ● changes in general conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; ● changes in drug reimbursement rates or government policies related to such reimbursement; ● significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; ● new regulatory legislation adopted in the U.S. or abroad; ● changes in patent legislation in the U.S. or abroad; ● our failure to achieve or meet equity research analysts’ expectations or their estimates of our business or prospects, or a change in their recommendations concerning us, the value of our common stock or our industry in general; ● termination or delay in any of our existing or future license or collaboration arrangements; ● future sales of equity or debt securities, or the perception that such future sales may occur; ● the loss of our eligibility to have shares of our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or other listed markets due to our failure to maintain minimum listing standards; ● changes in accounting principles or a restatement of previously reported financial results; ● failure to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of publicly-owned companies under the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and ● conditions in the economy generally and the capital markets in particular. In addition, the stock market in general, and more specifically the NASDAQ Global Select Market, upon which our common stock is traded, and the market for smaller biotechnology stocks in particular have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for a particular biotechnology company’s stock has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that company. Market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Due to this volatility, you may be unable to sell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid and you could lose all or part of your investment in us. In order to develop our product candidates and support our operations beyond 12 months from June 30, 2014, we may need to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, which could materially harm our financial condition, business and business prospects. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and long-term investments of $91.7 million as of June 30, 2014, along with the anticipated proceeds from our existing royalty-bearing licenses for Relenza® and Inavir® and reimbursements from BARDA related to expenses incurred in the development of laninamivir octanote and a final termination settlement will enable us to operate for a period of at least 12 months from June 30, 2014. This estimate assumes that we implement our restructuring and transition plan as previously disclosed and continue the development of our existing product candidates. This estimate does not include the impact of in-licensing or acquiring other clinical-stage development programs, any other significant transaction or change in our strategy or development plans in the near-future. We currently do not have any commitments for additional future funding, nor do we anticipate that we will generate any significant incremental revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates in the foreseeable future. Therefore, in order to meet our anticipated liquidity needs beyond 12 months to continue the development of our product candidates, or possibly sooner in the event we in-license or acquire another clinical-stage development program, enter into other transactions, change our strategy or accelerate our development plans, we may need to secure additional capital. In the event we need to raise additional capital, we expect to raise it primarily through the sale of our common stock or other equity securities, as well as potentially through forms of debt financing or other financing vehicles we may enter into in the future. Funds from these sources may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and our failure to raise such funds could have a material adverse impact on our future business strategy, plans, financial condition and results of operations. If adequate capital is not available to us on acceptable terms in the future, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, or delay or curtail our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If additional capital is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may also need to obtain funds through license or collaborative arrangements, pursuant to which we would likely relinquish potentially valuable rights to certain of our product candidates that we might otherwise choose to develop or commercialize independently, or be forced to enter into such arrangements earlier than we would prefer, which would likely result in less favorable transaction terms. Additional equity financings may be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant payment obligations and restrictive covenants that restrict how we operate our business. 41 The timing and extent of our future financing needs are uncertain and will depend on many factors, some of which are very difficult to predict or may be beyond our control, including: ● the variability of future royalty revenue we may receive under our existing royalty-bearing license agreements; ● the timing of and extent to which we receive reimbursements and a final termination settlement from BARDA for costs incurred under our terminated contract; ● the development timelines and plans for our product candidates, including any changes to those timelines, plans or our strategy; ● the variability, timing and costs associated with conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, the rate of enrollment in such clinical trials, and the results of these clinical trials: ● the variability, timing and costs associated with conducting preclinical studies, and the results of these studies; ● the cost of scaling up, formulating and manufacturing preclinical and clinical trial materials to evaluate our product candidates; ● whether we receive regulatory approval to advance the clinical development of our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all; ● the cost and time to obtain regulatory approvals required to advance the development of our product candidates; ● the scope and size of our research and development efforts; ● the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish in the future; ● the cost to maintain a corporate infrastructure to support being a company that is publicly traded in the U.S. on NASDAQ; and ● the cost of filing, prosecuting, and enforcing patent and other intellectual property claims. Future issuances of shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline, even if our business is doing well. The sale and issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales could occur, including any sales by our directors, executive officers, and other insiders or their affiliates, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. If we raise additional capital in the future, your level of ownership in us could be diluted or we could be required to relinquish certain rights. Any issuance of securities we may undertake in the future to raise additional capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those newly issued shares being dilutive. Further, if we obtain funds through a debt financing or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as a common stockholder, which could impair the value of our common stock. The terms of any debt financing we enter into may include covenants that limit our flexibility in conducting our business. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others, which might require us to relinquish valuable rights to our intellectual property or product candidates that we would have otherwise retained. 42 We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and accordingly, you must rely on appreciation in the price of our common stock for any return on your investment in us. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, our common stock will likely only provide a return to stockholders in the event there is appreciation in its price. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the laws of Delaware contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or in our management. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and the laws of Delaware, the state in which we are incorporated, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in our directors or management that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions: ● allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors; ● provide that our stockholders may remove our directors only for cause; ● authorize our Board of Directors to issue without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors; ● establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our Board of Directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; ● limit who may call stockholder meetings; and ● contain a fair price provision. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights of our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to remove and elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There can be no assurance that analysts will continue to cover us or provide favorable ratings. If any analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, change their opinion of our stock or disseminate negative information regarding our business, our share price may decline. If any analysts cease coverage of our company, or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. RISKS RELATED TO OTHER ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us for uninsured liabilities, or such claim exceeds our insurance coverage, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards that could materially harm our business. The use of any of our existing or future product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved pharmaceutical products may expose us to significant product liability claims. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for our ongoing clinical trials in the amount of $15 million. Further, we also require clinical research and manufacturing organizations that assist us in the conduct of our clinical trials or manufacture materials used in these trials to carry product liability insurance against such claims. This insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims that may be brought against us in the future. We may not be able to acquire or maintain adequate product liability insurance coverage at a commercially reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. In the event any of our product candidates are approved for sale by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries and commercialized, we may need to substantially increase the amount of our product liability coverage. Defending any product liability claim or claims could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 43 If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant reputational or financial loss. Our research activities may involve the controlled use of certain hazardous chemical and biological materials from time-to-time. Notwithstanding the various regulations controlling the use and disposal of these materials, as well as the safety procedures we undertake, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or exposure, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may negatively impact our operations, our financial resources or our ability to recruit new staff. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards to reduce taxable income generated in the future could be substantially limited or eliminated. Our ability to use our net operating losses in the U.S., Australia and the United Kingdom is subject to limitations and re-assessment due to ownership changes that have occurred, or that could occur in the future. Depending on the actual amount of any limitation on our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, a significant portion of our future taxable income could be taxable. Additionally, tax law limitations may result in our net operating losses expiring before we have the ability to use them. In addition, financing and acquisition transactions that we may enter into in the future could significantly limit or eliminate our ability to realize any value from our net operating losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 