ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this document that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements and include statements about products in development, clinical trials and studies, licensure applications and approvals, assessment of the StaphVAX Phase III trial results, and alliances and partnerships. You can identify these forward-looking statements because they involve our expectations, beliefs, projections, anticipations, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of any number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to: successfully partner with third parties to fund, develop, manufacture and/or commercialize our products in development; raise sufficient new capital resources to fully develop and commercialize our products in development; attract, retain and motivate key employees; collect further milestone and royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement; obtain regulatory approval for our products in the U.S. or other markets; successfully contract with a third party manufacturer for the manufacture and supply of NicVAX and other products; and comply with reporting and payment obligations under government rebate and pricing programs; and raise additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. These factors and others are more fully discussed below. Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We do not have sufficient capital resources to fully develop and commercialize our products in development and will require additional financing to do so. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the development of our products, including the cost of clinical trials and manufacturing products for clinical trials, and the commercialization of our products. Our products under development may not generate sales for several years or at all. We do not have the financial resources to fund all of our products in development to completion. We expect that our existing capital resources will enable us to maintain our operations for at least the next 12 months based on current activities; however, to fully fund ongoing and planned activities beyond the next 12 months we may need to raise additional funds. Therefore, should we not conclude a successful sale or merger of the company, our ability to continue to fund all of our ongoing research and development activities depends on our ability to obtain commercialization or development partners, to receive milestone and royalty payments that are not under our exclusive control, and to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to fund our research and development activities at the level required to commercialize our product development programs. If we are required to reduce the funding for certain of our research and development activities, this could have a material adverse effect on our future prospects. The following are illustrations of potential impediments to our ability to successfully secure additional funds: • the trading price of our common stock may affect our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity; • we no longer generate revenues from the sale of products; and • the outstanding indebtedness from our 2.875% convertible senior notes and the terms of the related indenture may discourage additional financing. We may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, collaborative arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements, we will be required to relinquish some or all rights to our technologies or product candidates and may be required to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to defer certain investments in research, product development, manufacturing, commercialization or business development, or otherwise modify our business strategy, and it could adversely affect our market valuation, results of operations or financial position. Our inability to enter into strategic alliances that allow us to successfully develop, manufacture, commercialize and market our products in development will have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing, commercializing and marketing our biopharmaceutical products in development and to fund certain of these activities currently requires us to enter into and successfully maintain strategic alliances with other 11 Table of Contents pharmaceutical companies or other industry participants to advance our programs. In particular, we will rely on strategic partners for the continued clinical efficacy testing and commercialization of pentavalent StaphVAX and for the commercialization of NicVAX. If we fail to enter into or maintain successful strategic alliances for our products in development, we will have to reduce or delay our product development, increase our expenditures or cease development with respect to certain of our pipeline products. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in our efforts to enter into or maintain successful strategic alliances. For example, in October 2007, we terminated the Development Agreement with Fresenius Biotech that we entered into in March 2006. Even if we are successful in entering into a strategic alliance, there is no assurance that our collaborative partners will conduct their activities in a timely and effective manner. If we are not successful in our strategic alliance efforts, our ability to develop, manufacture, commercialize and market our products will be affected adversely. Even if we are successful in entering into strategic alliances, if any of our collaborative partners violates or terminates its agreements with us or otherwise fails to complete its collaborative activities in a timely manner, the development, manufacture, commercialization or marketing of our products could be delayed, including delays in our ability to conduct clinical trials or obtain licensure of our products. These and other possible problems with our collaborative partners, including litigation or arbitration, could be time consuming and expensive and could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our strategic alternatives process may not be successful. We have retained Banc of America Securities LLC to assist with our continued exploration of the full range of strategic alternatives available to us to further enhance shareholder value. These alternatives may include, but are not limited to, licensing or development arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, and the sale or merger of all or part of the company. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any agreements or transactions. Both the exploration of strategic alternatives and the failure of the Company to successfully conclude any strategic transaction could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including our ability to retain key personnel and advance our operational business objectives. Our product candidates are in or will undergo clinical trials and the results from these trials may not be favorable. Our product candidates are in or will undergo clinical trials. These trials may not meet their defined endpoints, and, even if they do achieve their endpoints, we cannot be certain that results from future clinical trials will be positive. For example, the results of our Phase III trial of StaphVAX announced in November 2005 were not positive. Unfavorable clinical trial results in any clinical trial could adversely affect our business plans and have an adverse effect on our market valuation and our future business, financial condition and results of operations. To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the inability to do so could seriously harm our operations. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biopharmaceutical industry depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. In order to induce valuable employees to remain at the Company, in 2006 we created a retention program offering to certain key employees cash and equity incentives that vest over time. Some of these awards fully vested in 2007 and some will fully vest in 2009. In 2007, we made additional equity awards designed to motivate and retain key employees. The value to the employees of these incentives is significantly affected by our stock price that we cannot control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, manufacturing, research and clinical teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could potentially harm our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles, and a longer history in the industry than we do. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain the right balance of high quality personnel with suitable expertise, our business and ability to continue our business and development programs will be adversely effected. We may not collect any further milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement. We may not collect any further milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement with Fresenius. We have collected $10.5 million of milestone payments as of December 29, 2007. We may earn up to an additional $10 million upon successful completion of additional milestones. In addition, the purchaser acquired product rights to a new product formulation under development and we are entitled to royalties on sales of the new product formulation over a base amount for 10 years after the closing date until total consideration paid in the transaction reaches $150 million. There can be no assurance of the completion of additional milestones or sales of the new product formulation. If we are unable to complete any additional milestones and if there are no sales of the new product formulation, we will not collect any further milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement. We depend upon third parties to manufacture our products in development. We depend upon third parties to manufacture our products in development. Pursuant to a Manufacturing Services Agreement between us and Biotest, we are relying on Biotest to manufacture and transfer manufacturing technology to another manufacturer during the next two years. There can be no assurance that Biotest will meet its obligations to manufacture product and successfully transfer manufacturing ability to a new contract manufacturer. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to secure a new contract 12 Table of Contents manufacturer for our products under development and that a new contract manufacturer will be able to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of our products on a timely basis to permit continued development of our products and to commercialize our products in development. Creating and transferring a manufacturing process for biopharmaceutical products and manufacturing those products are complicated endeavors often fraught with technical difficulties that can significantly delay or prevent the successful manufacture of those products. At times, contract manufacturers have failed to meet our needs and we have experienced product losses at our contract fill and finisher. The failure of our contract manufacturers to supply us with sufficient amounts of product on a timely basis to meet our clinical or commercial needs, or to renew their contracts with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to transfer manufacturing capability to a new contract manufacturer, would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to renew our leases for our Rockville, Maryland facilities on acceptable terms. The terms of our leases for our office, laboratory, pilot manufacturing and warehouse space in Rockville, Maryland expire in December 2008. If we are unable to extend these leases, the transfer of our operations to a new facility may have an adverse effect on our operations. In connection with the sale of our biologics business and certain corporate shared services assets, Biotest agreed to provide us with certain essential services which if not received could adversely affect our business. In connection with the sale of our biologics business and certain corporate shared services assets, we entered into a Transition Services Agreement with Biotest in which Biotest agreed to provide transition services (including services related to finance, human resources and information technologies) to us for a period of up to six months after closing. The failure of Biotest to provide us with the services under the Transition Services Agreement on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Biologics strategic business unit asset purchase agreement, we will have continuing obligations to indemnify Biotest, and may be subject to other liabilities. In connection with the sale of our biologics business and certain corporate shared services assets to Biotest, we agreed to indemnify Biotest for a number of specified matters including the breach of our representations, warranties and covenants contained in the asset purchase agreement. Under the asset purchase agreement, $10 million of the total cash consideration was deposited into an escrow account to secure our indemnification obligations to Biotest following the closing. Our indemnification obligations under the asset purchase agreement could cause us to be liable to Biotest under certain circumstances, in excess of the amounts set forth in the escrow account and potentially could reach up to 25% of the purchase price. Also under the asset purchase agreement, we retained the liabilities related to our products sold prior to the consummation of the sale. These liabilities could be substantially higher than what we currently estimate. Either of these items could have a substantial negative impact on our continuing business. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide sufficient protection, and patents of other companies could prevent us from developing and marketing our products. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical firms generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There can be no assurance that existing patent applications will result in issued patents, that we will be able to obtain additional licenses to patents of others or that we will be able to develop additional patentable technology of our own. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by others. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, or, if patents are issued to us, others may design their patents around our patents. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have filed patents or patent applications or received patents relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. Some of these applications or patents may compete with our applications or conflict in certain respects with claims made under our applications. Such a conflict could result in a significant reduction of the coverage of our patents, if issued. In addition, if patents that contain competitive or conflicting claims are issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. If any licenses are required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require in order to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In July 2005 a potential competitor filed an opposition against our European patent that covers NicVAX and its use in the treatment and prevention of nicotine addiction. We filed our response in December 2005 and the European Patent Office has scheduled a hearing on the opposition for April 23, 2008. Although we do not believe that our European patent is invalid, and will vigorously challenge the opposition, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in this matter. 13 Table of Contents Additional litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope or validity of third-party proprietary rights or to defend against any claims that our business infringes on third-party proprietary rights. Patent litigation is expensive and could result in substantial cost to us. The costs of patent litigation and our ability to prevail in such litigation will have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on secrecy to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We maintain strict controls and procedures regarding access to and use of our proprietary technology and processes. However, there can be no assurance that these controls or procedures will not be violated, that we would have adequate remedies for any violation, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We compete with larger, better-financed and more mature pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are capable of developing and marketing products more effectively than we are able to. Competition in the development of biopharmaceutical products is intense, both from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and is expected to increase. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger research and development and marketing staffs and budgets than we have, as well as substantially greater experience in developing products and marketing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing biopharmaceutical products. We compete with our competitors: • to develop and market products; • to acquire products and technologies; and • to attract and retain qualified scientific personnel. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective, affordable or profitable than those that we are developing or marketing. In addition, one or more of our competitors may achieve product commercialization of or patent protection for competitive products earlier than us, which would preclude or substantially limit sales of our products. The successful development, commercialization or marketing by any of our competitors of any such products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The market may not be receptive to our products upon their introduction. There can be no assurance that any of our products in development will achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the clinical efficacy and safety of our products; • the potential advantages over existing treatment methods to the medical community; • results and timing of clinical studies conducted by our competitors; • regulatory approvals; • any limitation of indications in regulatory approvals; • the prices of such products; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. The failure of our pipeline products to gain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, the sale of our future products could be prevented or delayed. Research, pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. The process of obtaining FDA, foreign regulatory agency or other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease; 14 Table of Contents • the quality of submission; • the clinical efficacy and safety of the product; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the compliance record and controls of the manufacturing facility; • the availability of alternative treatments; and • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. Regulatory authorities also may require post-marketing surveillance to monitor potential adverse effects of our products or product candidates. The U.S. Congress, or the FDA in specific situations, can modify the regulatory process. Further, members of Congress can enact legislation that provides a formalized mechanism in the U.S. to allow for the approval of generic versions of biological products, which currently is not available. Finished products and their components used for commercial sale or in clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP requirements, a series of complex regulations and recommendations in guidance documents that govern manufacturing processes and procedures to assure the quality of our product candidates and products approved for commercial distribution. In addition, the FDA may, at any time, audit or inspect a manufacturing facility involved with the preparation of our products, its components, or our other product candidates for compliance with the regulations applicable to the activities being conducted. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations, the FDA may require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time consuming for us or a third party to implement and that may result in an inability to receive approval, recall of products, delay in approval or restrictions on the product or on the manufacturing post-approval, including the temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales or the temporary or permanent closure of a facility. Material violations of cGMP requirements could result in regulatory sanctions and, in severe cases, could result in a mandated closure of our facility or the facility of our third parties. Any such remedial measures imposed upon us or third parties with whom we contract could harm our business. Many of our clinical trials are at a relatively early stage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals to manufacture or market any of our pipeline products. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals for products under development could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Once approved, a product’s failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecutions which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. New regulations may be enacted and existing regulations, their interpretation and enforcement, are subject to change. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with any regulations. We may be subject to costly and damaging product liability and other claims in connection with the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are increasingly subject to litigation, including class action lawsuits, and governmental and administrative investigations and proceedings, including product pricing and marketing practices. There can be no assurance that lawsuits will not be filed against us or that we will be successful in the defense of these lawsuits. Defense of suits can be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the outcome, and an adverse result in one or more suits could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance, including products liability and directors and officers insurance, to cover claims against us. Product liability and directors and officers insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, or that existing or future claims against us will be covered by our insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have will offset any claims. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we were unable to obtain directors and officers liability insurance, it could affect adversely our ability to attract and retain directors and senior officers. 15 Table of Contents There are potential limitations on third-party reimbursement, complex regulations for reimbursement of products and other pricing-related matters that could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products in development and impair our ability to generate sufficient revenues from future product sales. Our ability to commercialize our products and related treatments depends in part upon the availability of, and our ability to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement from government health authorities, private healthcare insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party payer coverage will be available, if at all. There are high levels of regulatory complexity related to reimbursement from U.S. and other government payers that can significantly limit available reimbursement for marketed products. In the U.S., government and other third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the coverage and level of reimbursement for new products approved for marketing by the FDA and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for specific disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting or the impact of any healthcare reform laws could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Within the EU, a number of countries use price controls to limit reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that reimbursement in the U.S., the EU or other markets will be available for our products in development, or, if available, will not be reduced in the future, or that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products in development. The unavailability of government or third-party reimbursement or the inadequacy of the reimbursement for medical treatments using our products in development could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under Delaware law and under our stockholder rights plan, could make an acquisition of us more difficult. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. For example, our certificate of incorporation currently contains a fair price provision and also authorizes our board of directors to issue substantial amounts of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could reduce the voting power of the holders of our common stock and junior preferred stock and the likelihood that holders of our common stock and junior preferred stock will receive payments upon liquidation. We also are subject to provisions of Delaware law that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. One of these provisions prevents us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless specified conditions are satisfied. We also have implemented a stockholder rights plan, or poison pill, that would substantially reduce or eliminate the expected economic benefit to an acquirer from acquiring us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. These and other impediments to a third-party acquisition or change of control could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 