RISK FACTORS Statements in this document that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements and include statements about our marketed products, products in development, demand for our products, clinical trials and studies, licensure applications and approvals, assessment of the StaphVAX phase III trial results, and alliances and partnerships. You can identify these forward-looking statements because they involve our expectations, beliefs, projections, anticipations, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of any number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to: advance the development of products currently in our pipeline or in clinical trials; complete the assessment of the StaphVAX Phase III clinical trials during the first half of 2006; maintain the human and financial resources to commercialize current products and bring to market products in development; obtain regulatory approval for our products in the U.S. or other markets; successfully develop manufacture and market our products; utilize the full capacity of our manufacturing facility; successfully partner with third parties to develop, manufacture and distribute our existing and pipeline products; announce preliminary safety and immunogenicity results from our Phase IIb NicVAX study by early 2006; manufacture NicVAX in our own vaccine facility; realize the value of our acquisition of PhosLo; realize sales from Nabi-HB due to patient treatment protocols and the number of liver transplants performed in HBV-positive patients; effectively and profitability use our vaccine manufacturing facility; generate future sales growth for our biopharmaceutical products; comply with reporting and payment obligations under government rebate and pricing programs; prevail in patent litigation; raise additional capital on acceptable terms; re-pay our outstanding convertible senior notes when due; and our dependence upon: third parties to manufacture our products and a small number of customers. These factors and others are more fully discussed below. Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents We may not continue to commercialize or be able to successfully commercialize our Gram-positive infections products in development. In November 2005, we announced the results of our Phase III trial of StaphVAX, which did not meet its defined clinical end point that StaphVAX prevents S. aureus infections in patients on hemodialysis. The study, a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial of 3,976 patients on hemodialysis, found no reduction in S. aureus Types 5 and 8 infections in the StaphVAX group as compared to the placebo group. Following these results, in conjunction with a panel of outside experts, we initiated an internal assessment in an effort to determine the factors causing this outcome. This assessment will review, among other things, the vaccine target (S. aureus polysaccharide capsule), changes in the care of dialysis patients, manufacture of the vaccine and the quality of the antibody generated by the vaccine as well as the design and conduct of the clinical trial and will involve initiating a series of scientific experiments to help interpret the trial results. Our advisory panel of outside experts formed in December 2005 includes experts in immunology, vaccines, bacterial infections and nephrology to help us assess the future development of our Gram-positive infections programs and to advise us on the most appropriate steps to advance the clinical development of our Gram-positive infections portfolio, which includes our S. aureus, S. epidermidis and Enterococcus vaccine and antibody product candidates. We have also completed a series of individual consultations with external experts in the U.S. and Europe, including some members of the advisory panel. We expect to complete our internal assessment incorporating the work of the panel of outside experts during the first six months of 2006. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of our Gram-positive infections products and our willingness to continue to develop these products will depend on our understanding of the efficacy of their underlying technology. Our inability to timely assess and understand with certainty the factors causing the unfavorable results of the StaphVAX trial, our decision not to further commercialize some or all of the products in our Gram-positive infections portfolio or our ultimate inability to successfully commercialize some or all of these products could adversely affect our future business, operating results and financial condition. A number of our product candidates and marketed products in development are in or will undergo clinical trials and the results from these trials may not be favorable. A number of our product candidates or products in development are in or will undergo clinical trials. These trials may not meet their defined end points, and, even if they do achieve their end points, we cannot be certain that results from future clinical trials will be positive. The results of our Phase III trial of StaphVAX announced in November 2005 were not positive. Unfavorable clinical trial results at any stage could adversely affect our business plans and have an adverse effect on our market valuation and our future business. In 2005, we completed enrollment of the CARE 2 study, initiated in 2004, to demonstrate that when patients with ESRD treated with either PhosLo or Renagel achieve the same level of lipid control, there will be no significant difference in the development of coronary artery calcification thereby refuting the hypothesis that calcium intake as part of the PhosLo treatment is associated with cardiovascular calcification. The study is further designed to demonstrate that the combination of PhosLo and Lipitor will achieve superior control of serum phosphorus levels and calcium phosphorus product. Our inability to establish at least an equivalent result between the study arms could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are currently enrolling pre-dialysis Level 4 CKD patients in the EPICK study, to determine if PhosLo can control serum phosphorus in pre-dialysis patients with moderate to severe impairment of kidney function. If the results are favorable we will seek to broaden our labeled indication for PhosLo to CKD patients. Unfavorable clinical trial results or our inability to attain regulatory approval for the expansion of our labeled indication for PhosLo to CKD patients could adversely affect our business plans and have an adverse effect on our market valuation and our future business. 30 Table of Contents Claims and concerns may arise regarding the safety of our marketed products, which could lead to product withdrawals, reduced sales or product recalls. Regulatory approvals for any of our marketed products may be withdrawn for a number of reasons, including the later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, such as a previously unknown safety issue. In addition, post-marketing studies, which may be sponsored by us or our competitors, may present evidence that another product is safer or more effective than one of our products, which could lead to reduced sales of our product. Finally, claims and concerns may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of one of our marketed products, which could lead to a product recall. Product withdrawals, reduced sales, and product recalls could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our plans to commercialize Nabi-HB Intravenous, HEBIG, and PhosLo in the EU may not be successful. Using the Mutual Recognition Process, we filed MAA’s for Nabi-HB Intravenous, HEBIG, and PhosLo in the EU during 2004. There can be no assurance that we will receive approval to begin commercial sales of these products in any country in the EU that the approval is commercially feasible, or that such approval will be timely. If we receive approval, our focus will be on the launch of these two products through a sales distributor or commercialization partner, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a suitable distributor or partner. Following approval in each country, we or our distributor or commercialization partner will then need to seek reimbursement in that country. There can be no assurance reimbursement approval will be obtained from any or all of the countries where such approval is sought or that reimbursement, if approved, will be at sufficient levels in each country. Any delays in or failure to obtain licensure or reimbursement approvals, or the failure to obtain reimbursement approvals at sufficient levels, and any delays in commercialization could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. We have no direct experience in obtaining licensure of these products in the EU or other non-U.S. markets. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from our biopharmaceutical and antibody products or obtain financing necessary to fund our research and development and commercialization activities at an appropriate level. We generate revenues from sales of our biopharmaceutical and antibody products. We ceased to generate revenues from sales of one of these products, WinRho SDF, in March 2005 when our exclusive distribution agreement in the U.S. ended. We have incurred and expect to continue incurring significant expenses associated with our biopharmaceutical research and development activities, including the cost of clinical trials and marketing and other commercialization expenses. Our current revenues from sales of biopharmaceutical and antibody products are insufficient to fund our products under development. In addition, our products under development may not generate sales for several years or at all. We do not have the financial resources to fund concurrently all of our biopharmaceutical product development programs to completion. Therefore, our ability to continue to fund all of our ongoing research and development activities depends on our ability to generate sales from our biopharmaceutical and antibody products and to obtain external financing or commercial partners. There can be no assurance, therefore, that we will be able to continue to fund our research and development activities at the level required to commercialize all of our biopharmaceutical product development programs. If we are required to reduce the funding for certain of our research and development activities, this could have a material adverse effect on our future prospects. We expect that our existing capital resources and our ability to control expenditures will enable us to maintain our operations for at least the next twelve months based on current activities; however, to fully fund ongoing and planned activities beyond the next twelve months we may need to raise additional funds. Our operations will require significant additional funding in large part due to our current and future commercialization efforts. The amount of funds needed largely depends on our commercialization strategy concerning our Gram-positive products in development and on the timing and structure of potential future collaborations. 31 Table of Contents The following are illustrations of potential impediments to our ability to successfully secure additional funds: • the current trading price of our common stock will materially and adversely affect our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity; • our Phase III trial for StaphVAX did not meet its defined primary end point; and • the outstanding indebtedness from our 2.875% convertible senior notes issued in 2005 and the terms of the related indenture may discourage additional financing. We may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, collaborative arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to defer certain investments in research, product development, manufacturing, commercialization or business development, or otherwise modify our business strategy, and it could adversely affect our market valuation, results of operations and financial position. We may not realize the value of our acquisition of PhosLo or effectively use our nephrology sales force. On August 4, 2003, we acquired the worldwide rights to PhosLo through the purchase of various intangible assets for $60.3 million in cash, 1.5 million shares of our common stock and an obligation to pay $30.0 million in cash over the period ending March 1, 2007. These intangible assets represent approximately 23% of the total assets reflected on our balance sheet at December 31, 2005. PhosLo is marketed to physicians caring for ESRD patients who have developed elevated phosphorus levels in their blood. This is a competitive market in which we use our own sales force to sell PhosLo. In the U.S., PhosLo currently competes with three other products, two prescription medications and a non-prescription medication. In the EU, PhosLo will compete with multiple prescription products. A number of these products are or will be produced, marketed and sold by companies that have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we have. In September 2005, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against Roxane Laboratories, Inc. for infringement of our PhosLo Gelcap patent. We filed this lawsuit under the Hatch-Waxman Act in response to a Paragraph IV Certification letter we received from Roxane concerning Roxane’s filing of an ANDA with the FDA to market a generic version of PhosLo Gelcaps, on the basis that Roxane’s submission of its ANDA and its proposed generic product infringe a patent held by the Company. The patent expires in 2021. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA approval of Roxane’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. If we are not successful in protecting our PhosLo Gelcap patent other companies may develop lower cost generic versions of PhosLo, negatively affecting our ability to compete. PhosLo is currently the only nephrology product that we sell. When we acquired PhosLo we expected that we would be able to also sell StaphVAX to the nephrology community after its initial licensure for use with ESRD patients. Since the further development of StaphVAX is currently on 32 Table of Contents hold, we are uncertain when, if ever, it might be available for sale. We would like to acquire or in-license one or more other products for sale by our sales force to the nephrology community, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so on commercially advantageous terms, if at all. Our inability to acquire or in-license other nephrology products could adversely affect the effectiveness of our nephrology sales force. If we are unable to maintain an effective nephrology sales force or otherwise unable to successfully market PhosLo at current or higher prices, we may not recover the value of the PhosLo intangible assets we acquired, we will be required to write down or write off some or all of the PhosLo intangible assets, and our market valuation, balance sheet, results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. We depend upon third parties to manufacture our biopharmaceutical products. We manufacture only one of our marketed biopharmaceutical products and depend upon third parties to manufacture PhosLo and Aloprim. At times, contract manufacturers have failed to meet our needs. Our biopharmaceutical product sales were constrained in 2000 because of the inability of the contract manufacturer for WinRho SDF to supply product for a period of time. Since 2000, our ability to market Aloprim has been adversely affected at certain times by our inability to obtain necessary quantities of this product from our contract manufacturer. The failure of our contract manufacturers to supply us with sufficient amounts of product to meet our needs, or to renew their contracts with us on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The market may not be receptive to our products upon their introduction. There can be no assurance that any of our products in development will achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the clinical efficacy and safety of our products and their potential advantages over existing treatment methods to the medical community; • results of clinical studies conducted by our competitors; • regulatory approvals; • any limitation of indications in regulatory approvals; • the prices of such products; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. The failure of our clinical, research and development product pipeline and marketed products to gain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in licensing or operating our vaccine manufacturing plant. We have constructed a vaccine plant in our Boca Raton, Florida manufacturing facility designed to allow us to produce vaccines in our product pipeline. The new plant is designed to process several vaccines on a commercial scale. We have not previously owned or operated such a plant and have no direct experience in commercial, large-scale manufacturing of vaccine products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in licensing the plant or, if FDA and EU licensures are received, that the costs to validate the plant will be reasonable or that we can operate the plant efficiently and profitably. Our failure to successfully operate our new vaccine plant could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents We are not currently able to utilize the full capacity of our Boca Raton, Florida manufacturing facility. We began commercial manufacture of Nabi-HB at our Boca Raton, Florida manufacturing facility in the fourth quarter of 2001. For the foreseeable future, we will not utilize the full manufacturing capacity of the facility and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate the facility efficiently. There can be no assurance that we will have either our own products to manufacture or those of others to offset the cost of the facility’s operation. Our failure to fully utilize the capacity of the plant or to manufacture products successfully could require us to write down or write off some or all of the tangible and intangible assets related to the facility and could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. A disaster at our sole manufacturing site would interrupt our manufacturing capability for the products produced there. Currently, Nabi-HB is only manufactured at our manufacturing facility in Boca Raton, Florida. Manufacturing products at a single site presents risks because a disaster, such as a fire or hurricane, may interrupt manufacturing capability. In such an event, we will have to resort to alternative sources of manufacturing that could increase our costs as well as result in significant delays while required regulatory approvals are obtained. Any such delays or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our BLA license application for Nabi-HB Intravenous may not be approved. Our BLA license application for Nabi-HB Intravenous that was filed in November 2002 may not be approved by the FDA. Nabi-HB is a human polyclonal antibody product currently indicated to prevent hepatitis B, or HBV, infection following accidental exposure to the virus. We believe the majority of our Nabi-HB sales are used to prevent re-infection with hepatitis B disease in HBV-positive liver transplant patients. Nabi-HB is not currently labeled for this use. Our inability to obtain licensure from the FDA for Nabi-HB Intravenous could have an adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales of Nabi-HB are directly related to patient treatment protocols and the number of liver transplants performed in HBV-positive patients, over which we have no control. Our sales of Nabi-HB are primarily for the care of HBV-positive liver transplant patients at the time of and for a maintenance period following liver transplant. The number of liver transplants that occur depends on the number of livers available for transplant. The number of livers used for HBV-positive liver transplant candidates as well as the dosing of Nabi-HB may vary from time to time based on the following factors: • changes in overall organ availability; • allocations of available organs to eligible potential recipients; • changes in the treatment protocols applied to HBV-positive patients; • availability of alternative treatments and competitive products, such as anti-viral products; and • changes in reimbursement regimes including the MMA in the U.S., that may provide a negative incentive for the use of certain of our products in future periods. Each of these factors is outside our control. Sales of Nabi-HB will be adversely affected if patient treatment protocols change or the number of hepatitis B liver transplants decreases. Sales of Nabi-HB Intravenous, if it is licensed, will be similarly affected. This could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents A reduction in the availability of specialty antibodies could adversely affect our ability to manufacture an adequate amount of Nabi-HB or Civacir or to fulfill contractual obligations. Our ability to manufacture Nabi-HB today and Nabi-HB Intravenous, HEBIG, and Civacir, if they are licensed, will depend upon the availability of specialty antibodies that we primarily obtain from our FDA approved antibody collection centers. We also have contractual obligations to supply to third parties other specialty antibodies that we also obtain from our FDA approved antibody collection centers. Specialty antibodies are more difficult to obtain than non-specific antibodies. Reduced availability of the necessary specialty antibodies would adversely affect our ability to manufacture an adequate amount of Nabi-HB, Nabi-HB Intravenous, or HEBIG in the EU and Civacir, or to fulfill our contractual obligations, with the result that our future business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. We sell our products to a small number of customers. The loss of any major customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We sell a significant portion of our biopharmaceutical products to pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors. In 2005, three such customers accounted for 61% of our total consolidated sales. A loss of any of the customers or a material reduction in such customers’ purchases or inventories on hand at their sites could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We also maintain a significant receivable balance with each of these customers. If these customers become unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our non-specific antibody sales in 2005 were primarily to a single customer. The loss of this customer or a material reduction in its purchases of antibodies could have a material adverse effect upon our future business, financial condition and results of operations. New treatments may reduce the demand for our antibodies and antibody-based biopharmaceutical products. Most of the antibodies we collect, process and sell to our customers are used in the manufacture of biopharmaceutical products to treat certain diseases. Several companies are marketing and developing monoclonal antibody products to treat some of these diseases based on technology that would reduce or eliminate the need for human antibodies. Such products could adversely affect the demand for antibodies and antibody-based biopharmaceutical products. We are unable to predict the impact of future technological advances on our business. We may enter into strategic alliances that may not be successful and may adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. We intend to pursue strategic alliances with third parties to develop, commercialize and/or market certain of our biopharmaceutical products. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in these efforts or, if successful, that our collaborative partners will conduct their activities in a timely and effective manner. If we are not successful in our efforts, our ability to continue to develop, commercialize and market our products may be affected adversely. Even if we are successful, if any of our collaborative partners violates or terminates its agreements with us or otherwise fails to conduct its collaborative activities in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our products could be delayed. This might require us to devote significant additional resources to product development and commercialization or terminate certain development programs. In addition, there can be no assurance that disputes will not arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with third parties. These and other possible disagreements between our collaborative partners and us could lead to 35 Table of Contents delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of certain products, or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive and could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to develop and commercialize new biopharmaceutical products successfully or in a timely manner, which could adversely impact our future operations. Our future success will depend on our ability to achieve scientific and technological advances and to translate such advances into commercially competitive products on a timely basis. Our biopharmaceutical products under development are at various stages, and substantial further development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials will be required to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability. Our proposed development schedules for these products may be affected by a variety of factors, including: • technological difficulties; • competition; • failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals; • failure to achieve desired results in clinical trials; • proprietary technology positions of others; • positive clinical results for competitive therapies in the future; • reliance on third parties for manufacturing; • failure to market effectively; • changes in government regulation; and • lack of funding. Positive results for a product in a clinical trial do not necessarily assure that positive results will be obtained in future clinical trials or that we will obtain government approval to commercialize the product. In addition, any delay in the development, introduction or marketing of our products under development could result either in such products being marketed at a time when their cost and performance characteristics might not be competitive in the marketplace or in a shortening of their commercial lives. There can be no assurance that our biopharmaceutical products under development will prove to be technologically feasible or commercially viable or that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and licenses on a timely basis, if at all. Our failure to develop and commercialize successfully our biopharmaceutical products in a timely manner and obtain necessary regulatory approvals could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and our market valuation. We are unable to pass through certain cost increases to our antibody product customers with which we have supply contracts. A significant amount of our antibodies are sold under contracts that have a remaining term of up to three years. Certain contracts do not permit us to increase prices during the contract term except to reflect changes in customer specifications and new governmental regulations. If our costs of collecting antibodies under these contracts rise for reasons other than changes in customer specifications and new governmental regulations, we are unable to pass on these cost increases to our antibody product customers except with the customer’s consent. 36 Table of Contents An increase in the supply of or a decrease in the demand for antibody products could materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The worldwide supply of antibodies has fluctuated historically. Future changes in government regulation relating to the collection, fractionation and use of antibodies or any negative public perception about the antibody collection process or the safety of products derived from blood or antibodies could further adversely affect the overall supply of or demand for antibodies. Increases in supply or decreases in demand of antibody products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA, the EMEA, the Paul Ehrlich Institute in Germany, or PEI, the German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices, or BfArM, and other agencies, the sale of our current products and the commercialization of our product candidates would be prevented or delayed. Research, pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. The process of obtaining FDA, EMEA, PEI, BfArM and other required regulatory approvals are lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease; • the quality of submission; • the clinical efficacy and safety of the product; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the compliance record and controls of the manufacturing facility; • the availability of alternative treatments; and • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. Regulatory authorities also may require post-marketing surveillance to monitor potential adverse effects of our products or product candidates. The U.S. Congress, or the FDA in specific situations, can modify the regulatory process. Many of our clinical trials are at a relatively early stage and, except for Nabi-HB, PhosLo, Aloprim and certain non-specific and specialty antibody products, no approval from the FDA or any other government agency for the manufacturing or marketing of any other products under development has been granted. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals to manufacture or market any of our pipeline products. Failure to obtain additional regulatory approvals of products currently marketed or regulatory approval for products under development could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Once approved, a product’s failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecutions. Although we do not have material sales of our biopharmaceutical products outside the U.S. today, our goal is to expand our global presence for these products. Distribution of our products outside the U.S. is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations, vary from country to country. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining these regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the restriction, suspension or revocation of existing approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Our U.S. manufacturing, antibody collection, labeling, storage and distribution activities also are subject to strict regulation and licensing by the FDA. Our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility in Boca Raton, Florida is subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMEA, the PEI and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, we may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our antibody collection centers in the U.S. also are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory authorities, and from time to time, we may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure, or the failure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility or our antibody collection centers, to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in corrective action by the FDA, including closure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility or one or more antibody collection centers and fines or penalties. New regulations may be enacted and existing regulations, their interpretation and enforcement, are subject to change. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with any regulations or that the costs of such compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Heightened concerns over antibody products and screening measures could adversely affect our antibody production. Our antibody collection centers and our customers for antibody products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Concern over the safety of antibody products have in the past resulted and will likely result in the future in the adoption of more rigorous screening procedures by regulatory authorities and manufacturers of antibody products. In prior years, these changes have resulted in significantly increased costs to us in providing non-specific and specialty antibodies to our customers. New procedures, which include a more extensive investigation into a donor’s background, as well as more sensitive tests, also have disqualified numerous potential donors and discouraged other donors who may be reluctant to undergo the screening procedures. These more stringent measures could adversely affect our antibody production with a corresponding, adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our efforts to increase production to meet customer demand may result in higher costs to attract and retain donors. We may be subject to costly and damaging liability claims relating to antibody contamination and other claims. Antibodies we collect, antibody-based products we manufacture, antibody-based products we market or are developing, such as Nabi-HB and Civacir, and antibody-based products our customers manufacture run the risk of being contaminated with viruses. As a result, suits may be filed against our customers and us claiming that the plaintiffs became infected with a virus as a result of using contaminated products. Such suits have been filed in the past related to contaminated antibodies, and in a number of suits we were one of several defendants. There can be no assurance that additional lawsuits relating to infection with viruses will not be brought against us by persons who have become infected with viruses from antibody-based products. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are increasingly subject to litigation, including class action lawsuits, and governmental and administrative investigations and proceedings related to product pricing and marketing practices. There can be no assurance that lawsuits will not be filed against us or that we will be successful in the defense of these lawsuits. Defense of suits can be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the outcome, and an adverse result in one or more suits could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents We use and produce hazardous materials. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be costly. Our research and development operations involve the use of hazardous materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are currently classified as a large quantity generator of hazardous waste. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to damages, fines and penalties in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials and waste. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research and development and manufacturing efforts. We may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability and directors and officers insurance to cover claims against us. Product liability and directors and officers insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, or that existing or future claims against us will be covered by our insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have will offset existing or future claims. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we were unable to obtain directors and officers liability insurance, it could affect adversely our ability to attract and retain directors and senior officers. We may not be able to maintain sufficient property insurance on our facilities in Florida. We maintain significant real property assets in Florida. Property insurance for companies with a high concentration of property assets in Florida is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the value of our property increases. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide sufficient protection, and patents of other companies could prevent us from developing and marketing our products. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical firms generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There can be no assurance that existing patent applications will result in issued patents, that we will be able to obtain additional licenses to patents of others or that we will be able to develop additional patentable technology of our own. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by others. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, or, if patents are issued to us, design around such patents. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have filed patents or patent applications or received patents relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. Some of these applications or patents may compete with our applications or conflict in certain respects with claims made under our applications. Such a conflict could result in a significant reduction of the coverage of our patents, if issued. In addition, if patents that contain competitive or conflicting claims are issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. 39 Table of Contents If any licenses are required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require in order to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In September 2005, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against Roxane Laboratories, Inc., or Roxane, for infringement of our PhosLo Gelcap patent. We filed this lawsuit under the Hatch-Waxman Act in response to a Paragraph IV Certification letter we received from Roxane concerning Roxane’s filing of an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA to market a generic version of PhosLo Gelcaps, on the basis that Roxane’s submission of its ANDA and its proposed generic product infringe a patent held by us. The patent expires in 2021. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA approval of Roxane’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months or resolution of the patent infringement lawsuit. We have received correspondence alleging that our research and plans to commercialize NicVAX infringe certain U.S. and European patent rights. Based upon our current plans for NicVAX we do not believe that any valid U.S. or European patent rights will be infringed on, however, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in our belief if challenged. Additional litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights and to defend against any claims that our business infringes on third-party proprietary rights. Patent litigation is expensive and will result in substantial cost to us. The costs of patent litigation and our ability to prevail in such litigation will have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on secrecy to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We maintain strict controls and procedures regarding access to and use of our proprietary technology and processes. However, there can be no assurance that these controls or procedures will not be violated, that we would have adequate remedies for any violation, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We compete with larger, better-financed and more mature pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, that are capable of developing and marketing products more effectively than we are able to so. Competition in the development of biopharmaceutical products is intense, both from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and is expected to increase. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger research and development and marketing staffs and budgets than we have, as well as substantially greater experience in developing products and marketing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing biopharmaceutical products. Some of our competitors are able to price their competitive products, such as Renagel and Fosrenol, at prices that are substantially higher than our product, which provides them with greater gross margins to invest in development and marketing. We compete with our competitors: • to develop and market products; • to acquire products and technologies; and • to attract and retain qualified scientific personnel. 40 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective, affordable or profitable than those that we are developing and marketing. In addition, one or more of our competitors may achieve product commercialization of or patent protection for competitive products earlier than us, which would preclude or substantially limit sales of our products. Several companies are attempting to develop and market products to treat certain diseases based upon technology that would lessen or eliminate the need for human antibodies. The successful development, commercialization or marketing by any of our competitors of any such products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be required to make additional payments or be subject to penalties, fines and other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We participate in the Federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program based upon sales of our products that are reimbursed by those programs. Rebate calculations are complex and, in certain respects, subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services or, CMS, at the Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, of our current average manufacturer price and best price for each of our products. Governmental agencies may make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program. The PHS pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebates to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. In addition, we make our products available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, of the General Services Administration under an FSS contract negotiated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or DVA. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, or VHCA, imposes a requirement that the prices we charge to agencies under the FSS be discounted by a minimum of 24% off the average manufacturer price charged to non-federal customers. Our computation of the average manufacturer price to non-federal customers is used in establishing the FSS price for federal purchasers. The government maintains the right to audit the accuracy of our computations. Among the remedies available to the government for failure to accurately calculate FSS pricing and the average manufacturer price charged to non-federal customers is recoupment of any overpayments made by FSS purchasers as a result of errors in computations that affect the FSS price. In 2005, we engaged an outside consultant to assess our pricing programs and in connection with that assessment it was determined that we may have inadvertently underpaid certain rebates due under Medicaid and likely other governmental pricing programs during the period from 2003 to 2005 due to the extension of best prices to ineligible entities. As a result we have established an accrual of approximately $5.0 million in our financial statements for the future payment of those rebates. This amount represents our best estimate of the extent to which we underpaid amounts due under Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs during the period from 2003 to 2005, including amounts owing to the DVA and PHS. We expect to make the requisite payments during 2006. The amount also assumes that we will be successful in rebilling ineligible entities that improperly received best prices. We believe we have properly estimated the underpaid amounts due under Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs. However, if we are unable to effectively rebill and collect proper prices from ineligible entities we may be required to make additional payments to Medicaid and other similarly affected governmental pricing programs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, operating results and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents In connection with the determination that we have underpayments and overcharges under the Medicaid, PHS and FSS programs, we expect to engage in discussions with representatives of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the DVA, the PHS and the Department of Defense. These discussions could include a detailed review by these agencies of our calculations of our underpayments and overcharges, and it is possible that this review could result in material changes to our calculations. Resolving the amounts owed to governmental agencies in connection with the underpayments has resulted, and is expected to continue to result, in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, results of operations and financial condition. There are potential limitations on third-party reimbursement, complex regulations for reimbursement of our products and other pricing-related matters that could reduce the sales of our products and may delay or impair our ability to generate sufficient revenues. Our ability to commercialize our biopharmaceutical products and related treatments depends in part upon the availability of, and our ability to obtain adequate levels of, reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private healthcare insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party payer coverage will be available, if at all. Inadequate levels of reimbursement may prohibit us from maintaining price levels sufficient for realization of an adequate return on our investment in developing new biopharmaceutical products and could result in the termination of production of otherwise commercially viable products. Further, there are high levels of regulatory complexity related to reimbursement from U.S. and government payers that can significantly limit available reimbursement for market products. In the U.S., government and other third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the coverage and level of reimbursement for new products approved for marketing by the FDA and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. Also, the trend towards managed healthcare in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for our products. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting and the impact of any healthcare reform could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents Within the EU, a number of countries use price controls to limit reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. These price control limits are often derived from the chemical entity of the product, the competitive environment for a product and pricing in relation to other products. Further, price increases in these settings in future periods may be significantly restricted or price decreases in future periods may be mandated. Reimbursement for products within the EU is negotiated in each country. There can be no assurance that that we will receive reimbursement approval from any or all of the countries where we seek such approval or that reimbursement, if approved, will be at sufficient levels in each country. Any delays in or failure to obtain licensure or reimbursement approvals, or the failure to obtain reimbursement approvals at sufficient levels, and any delays in commercialization could adversely affect our market valuation, results of operations and our financial position. There can be no assurance that reimbursement in the U.S., the EU or other markets will be available for our products, or, if available, will not be reduced in the future, or that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. The unavailability of government or third-party reimbursement or the inadequacy of the reimbursement for medical treatments using our products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we are unable to forecast what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our future business. 43 Table of Contents Current healthcare laws and future legislative changes to the healthcare system may affect our ability to distribute our products profitably. The primary prescription drug benefit under the MMA, enacted in December 2003, the new Medicare Part D coverage, began in January 2006. The Part D program will be administered through a combination of PDP’s and Medicare Advantage Plans. The plan design is for the PDP’s to assume 100% of the financial risk for the relevant patient population. The MMA requires that each plan offer a minimum of two products in each therapeutic class. Because of the risk-bearing nature of the Part D program, PDP’s are likely to seek to manage their risk by selecting products that are both efficacious and low cost. PhosLo is the lowest cost prescription phosphate binder currently market in the U.S. As a result, we believe that the Part D program may provide us an opportunity to grow sales and increase market share of PhosLo but there can be no assurance of this growth and our inability to comply with the requirements of the Part D program in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute PhosLo profitably. Our operations are also subject to federal and state anti-kickback laws. Certain provisions of the Social Security Act prohibit entities such as us from knowingly and willingly offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any form of remuneration (including any kickbacks, bribe or rebate) in return for the referral of items or services for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services for which payment may be made under a federal health care program. Violation of the federal anti-kickback law is a felony, punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment for up to five years or both. In addition, the DHHS may impose civil penalties and exclude violators from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against payments intended to induce referrals of products or services paid by Medicaid or other third party payers. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws and their lack of uniformity, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws would not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results from operations. We may conduct business directly, or with partners, in countries outside of the U.S., which could expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations, which in turn may adversely affect reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repay our convertible senior notes upon maturity or to repurchase them. After giving effect to the 2.875% convertible senior notes offering we completed in May 2005, we had outstanding debt of approximately $112.4 million as of December 31, 2005. Our annual interest expense, including the interest payable on the notes, is approximately $4.1 million. At maturity in 2025, the entire outstanding principal amount of the notes will become due and payable by us. In addition, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase the notes on April 15, 2010, April 15, 2012, April 15, 2015 and April 15, 2020 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as described in the indenture governing the notes. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from our products or are unable to raise additional capital we may not be able to make required payments on the notes or our other obligations, resulting in our default under the terms of the notes and the related indenture, which would permit holders of the notes to accelerate maturity. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the principal amount or repurchase price when due. Our failure to pay the principal amount or repurchase price when due would result in an event of default with respect to the notes. Prior to the notes coming due, we may engage in 44 Table of Contents restructuring or other strategic initiatives that could affect the rate at which the notes convert into our common stock, resulting in the issuance of additional shares of common stock upon conversion of the notes that may dilute or be adverse to the value of our common stock. Conversion of the notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under Delaware law and under our stockholder rights plan, could make an acquisition of us more difficult. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. For example, our certificate of incorporation currently contains a fair price provision and also authorizes our board of directors to issue substantial amounts of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could reduce the voting power of the holders of our common stock and junior preferred stock and the likelihood that holders of our common stock and junior preferred stock will receive payments upon liquidation. We also are subject to provisions of Delaware law that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. One of these provisions prevents us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless specified conditions are satisfied. We also have implemented a stockholder rights plan, or poison pill, that would substantially reduce or eliminate the expected economic benefit to an acquirer from acquiring us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. These and other impediments to a third-party acquisition or change of control could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for our securities. 