ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital in the future, or ever become profitable. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose a portion or all of your investment in our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES Our success depends largely upon our ability to advance our product candidates through the various stages of drug development. If we are unable to successfully advance or develop our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. Even though we generate royalty revenue from two of our influenza products, all of our product candidates are in early stages of development and their commercial viability remains subject to the successful outcome of current and future preclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing processes, regulatory approvals and the risks generally inherent in the development of pharmaceutical product candidates. Failure to advance the development of one or more of our product candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business ultimately depends upon our ability to advance the development of our product candidates through preclinical studies and clinical trials, be able to consistently manufacture them in accordance with strict specifications and regulations, get these product candidates approved for sale by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, and ultimately have our product candidates successfully commercialized by us or a strategic partner or licensee. We cannot assure you that the results of our ongoing research, preclinical studies or clinical trials will support or justify the continued development of our product candidates, or that we will receive approval from the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, to advance the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous regulatory standards of safety, efficacy and manufacturing before we can advance or complete their development or they can be approved for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy studies and clinical trials, develop acceptable and cost effective manufacturing processes, and obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Despite these efforts, our product candidates may not: ● offer therapeutic or other medical benefits over existing drugs or other product candidates in development to treat the same patient population; ● be proven to be safe and effective in current and future preclinical studies or clinical trials; ● have the desired effects; ● be free from undesirable or unexpected effects; ● meet applicable regulatory standards; ● be capable of being formulated and manufactured in commercially suitable quantities and at an acceptable cost; or ● be successfully commercialized by us or by our collaborators. Even if we demonstrate favorable results in preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials, we cannot assure you that the results of late-stage clinical trials will be sufficient to support the continued development of our product candidates. Many, if not most companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries have experienced significant delays, setbacks and failures in all stages of development, including late-stage clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in preclinical testing or early-stage clinical trials. Accordingly, results from completed preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in late-stage trials. Furthermore, even if the data collected from preclinical studies and clinical trials involving any of our product candidates demonstrate a satisfactory safety and efficacy profile, such results may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the U.S. or other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions, which is required to market and sell the product. Clinical trials are lengthy and expensive. We incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials, yet cannot be certain that these tests and trials will ever result in the commercial sale of a product. For example, clinical trials require adequate supplies of clinical trial material and sufficient patient enrollment. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Even if we or our collaborators successfully complete clinical trials for our product candidates, we or they might not file the required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and may not receive marketing approval for the product candidate. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will successfully progress further through the drug development process, or will result in a commercially viable product. 22 The continuation of our BARDA contract depends on our ability to meet development milestones previously agreed to with BARDA and on our compliance with certain operating procedures and protocols. The termination, suspension or reduction of our contract with BARDA could adversely affect our business and impair our ability to further develop or commercialize laninamivir octanoate. In 2011, we were awarded a contract from BARDA for the late-stage development of laninamivir octanoate. Under this contract, we are entitled to receive up to $231 million in funding and we are relying on this funding to support the advanced development of laninamivir octanoate in the U.S. BARDA may suspend or terminate this contract should we fail to achieve key objectives or milestones, or fail to comply with the operating procedures and processes approved by BARDA and its audit agency, the Defense Contract Audit Agency. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these milestones or continue to comply with these procedures and protocols, or that we will be able to successfully develop laninamivir octanoate under this contract. If our contract with BARDA contract is terminated, suspended or significantly reduced, we will likely not have access to sufficient resources to continue to fund the development and commercialization of laninamivir octanoate, and our business could be adversely affected. BARDA may not fully reimburse all the development costs required to support the approval of laninamivir octanoate in the U.S. and we may need to expend additional financial resources to achieve a NDA filing, which could harm our financial condition. Costs that can be reimbursed under our contract with BARDA are currently capped at $231.2 million. If we surpass this amount or otherwise materially alter the development plans for laninamivir octanoate, and BARDA does not agree to modify the scope of the contract plan, we may incur additional costs to complete the development of laninamivir octanoate and file a NDA. If the actual or perceived therapeutic benefits or the safety or tolerability profile of any of our product candidates, including laninamivir octanoate, are not equal to or superior to other competing anti-infective treatments approved for sale or in clinical development, we may terminate the development of any of our product candidates at any time, and our potential profitability could be harmed. We are aware of a number of companies marketing or developing various classes of anti-infective product candidates or products for the treatment of influenza, RSV, HRV and bacterial infections. Many of these product candidates are either approved for sale or further advanced in clinical development than ours such that their time to approval and commercialization may be sooner than that for our product candidates. Accordingly, if at any time we believe that any of our product candidates may not provide meaningful therapeutic benefits, perceived or real, equal to or better than our competitor’s products or product candidate’s, or we believe such product candidates may not have as favorable a safety or tolerability profile as potentially competitive compounds, we may delay or terminate the future development of any of our product candidates at any time. We cannot provide any assurance that the future development of any or our product candidates will demonstrate any meaningful therapeutic benefits over potentially competitive compounds currently approved for sale or in development, or an acceptable safety profile sufficient to justify its continued development. We also anticipate that several drugs, such as oseltamivir phosphate (Tamiflu®) and zanamivir (Relenza®), will compete with laninamivir octanoate for the treatment of influenza, if approved for sale. We also believe a number of antibiotics, such as: vancomycin, which is marketed by a number of manufacturers including Abbott Laboratories; Cubicin® marketed by Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Zyvox® marketed by Pfizer Inc. and Avelox® marketed by Bayer for the treatment of bacterial infections, will compete with certain of our antibiotic product candidates if they are successfully developed and approved for sale. Furthermore, at the time our products may be approved, several of these competing products are likely to be generic drugs. Generic drugs are compounds that have no patent protection, and generally have an average selling price substantially lower than drugs that are protected by patents and intellectual property rights. Unless a patented drug can differentiate itself from generic drugs that treat or prevent the same condition or disease in a clinically meaningful manner, the existence of generic competition in any indication may impose significant pricing pressure on patented drugs. Accordingly, if at any time we believe that any of our product candidates may not provide meaningful therapeutic or safety benefits, perceived or real, over these generic drugs, we may delay or terminate its future development at any time. We cannot provide any assurance that late-stage clinical trials of our product candidates that may compete with generic drugs in the future will demonstrate any meaningful therapeutic or safety benefits over these drugs sufficient to justify its continued development. Further, if we successfully develop a product candidate and it is approved for sale, we cannot assure you that any real or perceived therapeutic benefits of our drug over generic drugs will result in it being prescribed by physicians or commanding a price higher than the existing generic drugs. Our product candidates may exhibit undesirable side effects when used alone or in combination with other approved pharmaceutical products, which may delay or preclude their further development or regulatory approval, or limit their use if approved. Throughout the drug development process, we must continually demonstrate the activity, safety and tolerability of our product candidates to obtain regulatory approval to further advance their clinical development, or to market them. Even if our product candidates demonstrate adequate biologic activity and clear clinical benefit, any unacceptable side effects or adverse events, when administered alone or in the presence of other pharmaceutical products, may outweigh their potential benefit. We may observe adverse or serious adverse events or drug-drug interactions in future preclinical studies or clinical trials of our product candidates, which could result in the delay or termination of their development, prevent regulatory approval, or limit their market acceptance if they are ultimately approved. 23 If the results of preclinical studies or clinical trials for our product candidates, including those that are subject to existing or future license or collaboration agreements, are unfavorable, we could be delayed or precluded from the further development or commercialization of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. In order to further advance the development of, and ultimately receive marketing approval to sell our product candidates, we must conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries, as the case may be. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, complex, can take many years to complete, and have highly uncertain outcomes. Delays, setbacks, or failures can and do occur at any time, or in any phase of preclinical or clinical testing, and can result from concerns about safety, tolerability, toxicity, a lack of demonstrated biologic activity or improved efficacy over similar products that have been approved for sale or are in more advanced stages of development, poor study or trial design, and issues related to the formulation or manufacturing process of the materials used to conduct the trials. The results of prior preclinical studies or early-stage clinical trials are not predictive of the results we may observe in late-stage clinical trials. In many cases, product candidates in clinical development may fail to show desired tolerability, safety and efficacy characteristics despite having favorably demonstrated such characteristics in preclinical studies or early-stage clinical trials. In addition, we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical studies and the clinical trial process, which could delay or impede our ability to advance the development of, receive marketing approval for, or commercialize our product candidates, including, but not limited to: ● communications with the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities in different countries, regarding the scope or design of a trial or trials, or placing the development of a product candidate on clinical hold until questions or issues are satisfactorily resolved; ● regulatory authorities or institutional review boards not authorizing us to commence or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; ● enrollment in our clinical trials being delayed, or proceeding at a slower pace than we expected, because we have difficulty recruiting patients or because participants drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipated; ● our third-party contractors, upon whom we rely to conduct preclinical studies, clinical trials and the manufacturing of our clinical trial materials, may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; ● having to suspend or ultimately terminate a clinical trial if participants are being exposed to unacceptable health or safety risks; ● regulatory authorities or IRBs requiring that we hold, suspend or terminate our preclinical studies and clinical trials for various reasons, including non-compliance with regulatory requirements; and ● the supply or quality of material necessary to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials being insufficient, inadequate or unavailable. Even if the data collected from preclinical studies or clinical trials involving our product candidates demonstrate a satisfactory tolerability, safety and efficacy profile, such results may not be sufficient to support the submission of a NDA to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA in the U.S., or other similar foreign regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions, which is required for us to market and sell the product. Several of our product candidates are being developed to treat seasonal respiratory infections, which could cause their clinical development to be more complex, take longer and cost more to complete than product candidates intended for non-seasonal infections. Influenza, HRV and RSV are respiratory infections that generally occur much more frequently in the fall and winter months in any given region, as opposed to the spring and summer months. Accordingly, clinical trials being conducted in patients with these seasonal respiratory infections need to be conducted during the season in which the infections occur, and generally cannot be conducted year-round in any one region of the world. The seasonality of these respiratory infections generally requires us to plan to conduct clinical trials in both the northern and southern hemisphere in order to enroll these trials on a timely basis. In the event we cannot enroll a sufficient number of patients during a season in any one region of the world, such as the Northern Hemisphere, we may need to also conduct the trial in countries in the Southern Hemisphere in order to meet our enrollment targets, which increases the complexity of these trial designs, exposes us to additional regulatory oversight in more countries, and generally increases the cost and time to conduct these trials. 24 In the event that the severity, nature and extent of influenza in any given year or season is moderate to mild, we may not be able to recruit a sufficient number of patients or clearly demonstrate the efficacy of laninamivir octanoate in a placebo-controlled clinical trial, which would could materially harm our business prospects and financial condition. To support a NDA filing with the FDA, we anticipate conducting several placebo-controlled clinical trials of laninamivir octanoate with the primary efficacy endpoints designed to show in a statistically significant manner that laninamivir octanoate has superior clinical benefit as compared to placebo. In the event the severity, nature and extent of influenza and its correlate symptoms are mild during the seasons in which we are conducting our clinical trials, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in the trial in a timely manner or demonstrate a statistical difference in outcomes between those patients that receive laninamivir octanoate and those that receive placebo. This could result in the clinical trial failing to achieve its primary end point, which may cause us to have to repeat the trial, or BARDA to terminate our contract, either of which would materially harm our business prospects and financial condition. If third-party contract manufacturers, upon whom we rely to formulate and manufacture our product candidates, do not perform, fail to manufacture according to our specifications, or fail to comply with strict government regulations, our preclinical studies or clinical trials could be adversely affected and the development of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated, or we could incur significant additional expenses. We do not currently own any manufacturing facilities. We have historically used third-party contract manufacturers and we intend to continue to rely on third-party contractors at least for the foreseeable future, to formulate, manufacture, fill and package our product candidates. Our reliance on these third-party contract manufacturers, which in some cases are sole sourced, exposes us to a number of risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of our preclinical studies or clinical trials, or the regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues. Some of these risks include, but are not limited to: ● our third-party contractors failing to develop an acceptable formulation to support late-stage clinical trials for, or the commercialization of, our product candidates; ● our contract manufacturers failing to manufacture our product candidates according to their own standards, our specifications, cGMPs or regulatory guidelines, or otherwise manufacturing material that we or regulatory authorities deem to be unsuitable for our clinical trials; ● our contract manufacturers being unable to increase the scale of, increase the capacity for, or reformulate the form of our product candidates. We may experience a shortage in supply, or the cost to manufacture our product candidates may increase to the point where it adversely affects their cost. We cannot assure you that our contract manufacturers will be able to manufacture our product candidates at a suitable scale, or we will be able to find alternative manufacturers acceptable to us that can do so; ● our contract manufacturers placing a priority on the manufacture of other customers’ or their own products, rather than ours; ● our contract manufacturers failing to perform as agreed or exiting from the contract manufacturing business; and ● our contract manufacturers’ plants being closed as a result of regulatory sanctions or a natural disaster. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical drug products are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) and corresponding state and other foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with FDA-mandated cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over our third-party contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards and accordingly, failure by our third party manufacturers, or us, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us or the manufacturer, which could significantly and adversely affect our business. In the event that we need to change our third-party contract manufacturers, our preclinical studies, clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, adversely affected or terminated, or such a change may result in the need for us to incur significantly higher costs, which could materially harm our business. Due to regulatory restrictions inherent in the U.S. and many other countries, as well as potential capacity constraints on manufacturing that occur from time-to-time in our industry, various steps in the manufacture of our product candidates are sole-sourced to various contract manufacturers. In accordance with cGMPs, changing manufacturers may require the re-validation of manufacturing processes and procedures, and may require further preclinical studies or clinical trials to show comparability between the materials produced by different manufacturers. Changing our current or future contract manufacturers may be difficult, if not impossible for us, and could be extremely costly, which could result in our inability to manufacture our product candidates for an extended period of time and therefore a delay in the development of our product candidates. Further, in order to maintain our development time lines in the event of a change in our third-party contract manufacturer, we may incur significantly higher costs to manufacture our product candidates. 25 If third-party vendors, upon whom we rely to conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials, do not perform or fail to comply with strict regulations, these studies or trials may be delayed, terminated, or fail, or we could incur significant additional expenses, which could materially harm our business. We have limited resources dedicated to designing, conducting and managing preclinical studies and clinical trials. We have historically relied, and intend to continue to rely, on third parties, including clinical research organizations, consultants and principal investigators, to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and conducting our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We rely on these vendors and individuals to perform many facets of the clinical development process on our behalf, including certain preclinical studies, the recruitment of sites and patients for participation in our clinical trials, maintenance of good relations with the clinical sites, and ensuring that these sites are conducting our trials in compliance with the trial protocol and applicable regulations. If these third parties fail to perform satisfactorily, or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates may be delayed or prove unsuccessful. Further, the FDA, or similar regulatory bodies in other countries, may inspect some of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials or our third-party vendors’ sites to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to GCP or similar regulations. If we or a regulatory authority determine that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with, or have not conducted our clinical trials according to applicable regulations, we may be forced to delay, repeat or terminate such clinical trials. We have limited capacity for recruiting and managing clinical trials, which could delay or impair our timing to initiate or complete clinical trials of our product candidates and materially harm our business. We have limited capacity to recruit and manage the clinical trials necessary to obtain approval by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries. By contrast, larger pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies often have substantial staff or departments with extensive experience in conducting clinical trials with multiple product candidates across multiple indications. In addition, they may have greater financial resources to compete for the same clinical investigators, sites and patients that we are attempting to recruit for our clinical trials. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage that could delay the initiation, recruitment, timing and completion of our clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals, if at all, for our product candidates. If we are unable to retain or attract key employees, advisors or consultants, we may be unable to successfully develop our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all, or otherwise manage our business effectively. We have adopted an operating model that relies on the outsourcing of a number of responsibilities and key activities to third-party consultants and contract research and manufacturing organizations in order to advance the development of our product candidates. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to retain highly qualified key management, personnel and directors to develop, implement and execute our business strategy and operations, and oversee the activities of our consultants and vendors, as well as academic and corporate advisors or consultants that assist us in this regard. We are currently highly dependent upon the efforts of our management team to accomplish this. In order to advance the development of our product candidates, we need to retain and be able to recruit certain key personnel, consultants or advisors with experience in a number of disciplines, including research and development, product development, clinical trials, medical affairs, government regulation of pharmaceutical products, manufacturing, business development, accounting, finance, human resources and information systems. Although we have not experienced material difficulties in retaining key personnel in the past, we may not be able to continue to do so in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If we lose any key employees, or are unable to retain qualified key personnel, directors, advisors or consultants, the development of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated and our business may be harmed. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or develop innovative products, which could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Key competitive factors in our industry include, among others, the ability to successfully advance the development of a product candidate through preclinical and clinical trials; the efficacy, toxicology, safety, resistance or cross-resistance, and dosing profile of a product or product candidate; the timing and scope of marketing approvals, if ever achieved; reimbursement rates for and the average selling price of competing products and pharmaceutical products in general; the availability of raw materials and qualified contract manufacturing and manufacturing capacity; manufacturing costs; establishing and maintaining intellectual property and patent rights and their protection; and sales and marketing capabilities. We face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, many of whom have substantially greater resources. In Japan, zanamivir (Relenza®) and laninamivir octanoate (Inavir®) compete with oseltamivir phosphate (Tamiflu®). A similar situation would likely exist if laninamivir octanoate is approved and marketed in territories outside Japan. In addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies and product candidates that will compete with our other product candidates and research programs. These companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. 26 Developing pharmaceutical product candidates is a highly competitive, expensive and risky activity with a long business cycle. Many organizations, including the large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies that have existing products on the market or in clinical development that could compete with our product candidates, have substantially more resources than we have, and much greater capabilities and experience than we have in research and discovery, designing and conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, operating in a highly regulated environment, manufacturing drug substances, products and devices, and marketing and sales. Our competitors may be more successful than we are in obtaining regulatory approvals for their product candidates and achieving broad market acceptance once they are approved. Our competitors’ products or product candidates may be more effective, have fewer adverse effects, be more convenient to administer, have a more favorable resistance profile, or be more effectively marketed and sold than any product we, or our potential collaborators, may develop or commercialize. New drugs or classes of drugs from competitors may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we are able to successfully develop them or, if approved, before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing them. We anticipate that we or our collaborators will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs and drug classes enter the market and advanced technologies or new drug targets become available. If our product candidates do not demonstrate any meaningful competitive advantages over existing products, new products or product candidates, we may terminate the development or commercialization of our product candidates at any time. We also face, and expect we will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies for attracting investigators and clinical sites capable of conducting our preclinical studies and clinical trials, and for patients to participate in our clinical trials. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborators, may succeed in developing product candidates or products that are more effective, safer, less expensive or easier to administer than ours. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we can. Companies that can complete clinical trials, obtain required marketing approvals and commercialize their products before their competitors do so may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and marketing exclusivity rights that could delay the ability of competitors to market certain products. We cannot assure you that product candidates resulting from our research and development efforts, or from joint efforts with our collaborators, will be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ existing products or product candidates in development. We may be unable to successfully develop a product candidate that is the subject of collaboration if our collaborator does not perform or fulfill its contractual obligations, delays the development of our product candidate, or terminates our agreement. We expect to continue to enter into and rely on license and collaboration agreements or other similar business arrangements with third parties to further develop and/or commercialize some of our existing and future product candidates. Such collaborators may not perform as agreed upon or anticipated, may fail to comply with strict regulations, or may elect to delay or terminate their efforts in developing or commercializing our product candidates even though we have met our obligations under the arrangement. A majority of the potential revenue from existing and future collaborations will likely consist of contingent payments, such as payments received for achieving development or regulatory milestones, and royalties payable on the sales of approved products. Milestone and royalty revenues that we may receive under these collaborations will depend primarily upon our collaborator’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, our collaborators may decide to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize products developed under our existing or future collaborations using our technologies, which could reduce the milestone and royalty revenue that we may receive, if any. In many cases, we will not be directly or closely involved in the development or commercialization of our product candidates and, accordingly, will depend entirely on our collaborators. Our collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates because they: ● do not allocate the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited capital resources, or the belief that other product candidates or internal programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval, or may potentially generate a greater return on investment; ● do not have sufficient resources necessary to fully support the product candidate through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization; ● are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; or ● de-prioritize the importance of or otherwise diminish their support for developing and/or marketing our product candidate or product due to a change in management, business operations or financial strategy. Should any of these events occur, we may not realize the full potential or intended benefit of our collaboration arrangements, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, a collaborator may decide to pursue the development of a competitive product candidate developed outside of our collaboration with them. Conflicts may also arise if there is a dispute about the progress of, or other activities related to, the clinical development or commercialization of a product candidate, the achievement and payment of a milestone amount, the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the collaborative arrangement, or other licensing agreement terms. If a collaborator fails to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates for any of these reasons, we may not be able to replace them with another collaborator willing to develop and commercialize our product candidates under similar terms, if at all. Similarly, we may disagree with a collaborator as to which party owns newly or jointly-developed intellectual property. Should an agreement be revised or terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the anticipated benefits of the collaboration, we may not be able to obtain certain development support or revenues that we anticipated receiving. We may also be unable to obtain, on terms acceptable to us, a license from such collaboration partner to any of its intellectual property that may be necessary or useful for us to continue to develop and commercialize the product candidate. We cannot assure you that any product candidates will emerge from any existing or future collaboration agreements we may enter into for any of our product candidates. 27 Our early-stage research and development efforts may not result in additional product candidates being discovered, which could limit our ability to generate revenues in the future. Our early-stage research and discovery efforts may not lead to the development of any additional product candidates that may be suitable for further preclinical or clinical development to treat viral or bacterial infections. The discovery of additional product candidates requires significant research and preclinical studies, as well as a substantial commitment of internal and/or external resources. Many candidate or lead compounds that appear to be promising in early stages of discovery or research, fail to progress to become product candidates in preclinical studies or clinical trials. There is a great deal of uncertainty inherent in the research and development process and, as a consequence, in our ability to advance the development of lead compounds to potentially promising product candidates. We cannot assure you that our early research activities and efforts will yield any additional preclinical or clinical product candidates. RISKS RELATED TO COMMERCIAL MATTERS We have a history of incurring net losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a history of incurring net losses, some of which are significant. We expect to incur additional net losses in the near-term, and these losses could increase as our research and development efforts progress. To become consistently profitable, we, or our collaborators, must successfully manufacture and develop product candidates, receive regulatory approval, successfully commercialize and/or enter into profitable agreements with other parties and maintain existing and/or obtain additional intellectual property rights. It could be several years, if ever, before we receive significant royalties from any future license agreements or revenues directly from the sale of any products. Royalty revenues from our marketed products are unpredictable and subject to the seasonal incidence and severity of influenza, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We currently earn royalty revenue from net sales of Relenza® and Inavir®, which are marketed by licensees. Although the royalty rates paid to us by our licensees are fixed at a proportion of our licensees’ net sales of these products, our periodic and annual revenue from these royalties has historically been variable and subject to fluctuation based on the seasonal incidence of influenza. In addition, the return of products to our licensees is taken into account in the calculation of net sales for purposes of calculating the royalty revenue we receive and are in general unpredictable. We cannot predict with any certainty what our royalty revenues are likely to be in any given year. If significant safety, tolerability, resistance or drug interaction issues should arise with Relenza® and Inavir®, our future royalty revenue may be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition and business. We currently earn royalty revenue from Relenza® and Inavir®, which are marketed by our licensees. Data supporting the marketing approvals and forming the basis for the safety warnings in the product labels for these products were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration in limited patient populations and, in some cases, from post-approval use. As these marketed products are used over longer periods of time and by more patients, some with underlying health problems or taking other medicines, new issues such as safety, tolerability resistance or drug interaction issues may arise, which may require our licensees to provide additional warnings or contraindications on their product labels, or otherwise narrow the approved indications. If serious safety, tolerability, resistance, drug interaction or any other significant issues arise with respect to these marketed products, sales of these products could be limited or abandoned by our licensees or by regulatory authorities, in which case our royalty revenue would decrease. If government and third-party payers fail to provide adequate reimbursement or coverage for our products or those we develop through collaborations, our revenues and potential for profitability will be harmed. In the U.S. and most foreign markets, product revenues or related royalty revenue, and therefore the inherent value of our products, will depend largely upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payers for such products. Third-party payers include government health administration authorities, managed-care organizations, private health insurers and other similar organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly examining the cost effectiveness of medical products, services and pharmaceutical drugs and challenging the price of these products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Further, the comparative effectiveness of new products over existing therapies and the assessment of other non-clinical outcomes are increasingly being considered in the decision by payers to establish reimbursement rates. We may also need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial resources. We cannot assure you that any products we successfully develop will be reimbursed in part, or at all, by any third-party payers in any country. 28 Many governments continue to propose legislation designed to expand the coverage, yet reduce the cost, of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drugs. In many foreign markets, governmental agencies control the pricing of prescription drugs. In the U.S., significant changes in federal health care policy were recently approved and will mostly likely result in reduced reimbursement rates in the future. We expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement increased government control over reimbursement rates of pharmaceutical products. In addition, we expect that increasing emphasis on managed care and government intervention in the U.S. healthcare system will continue to put downward pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products there. Government cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our products that may be approved for sale in the future, which would limit our revenues and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products may change before our product candidates are approved for sale, which could further limit or eliminate their reimbursement rates. Further, social and patient activist groups, whose goal it is to reduce the cost of healthcare, and in particular the price of pharmaceutical products, may also place downward pressure on the price of these products, which could result in decreased prices of our products. If any product candidates that we develop independently or through collaborations are approved but do not gain meaningful acceptance in their intended markets, we are not likely to generate significant revenues. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and we or a collaborator obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market them in the future, they may not gain market acceptance or utilization among physicians, patients or third-party payers. The degree of market acceptance that any of our products may achieve will depend on a number of factors, including: ● the efficacy or perceived clinical benefit of the product, if any, relative to existing therapies; ● the timing of market approval and the existing market for competitive drugs, including the presence of generic drugs; ● the level of reimbursement provided by third-party payers to cover the cost of the product to patients; ● the net cost of the product to the user or third-party payer; ● the convenience and ease of administration of the product; ● the product’s potential advantages over existing or alternative therapies; ● the actual or perceived safety of similar classes of products; ● the actual or perceived existence, incidence and severity of adverse effects; ● the effectiveness of sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and ● the scope of the product label approved by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that physicians will choose to prescribe or administer our products, if approved, to the intended patient population. If our products do not achieve meaningful market acceptance, or if the market for our products proves to be smaller than anticipated, we may never generate significant revenues. If we fail to enter into or maintain collaborations or other sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties to commercialize our product candidates, or otherwise fail to establish marketing and sales capabilities in the future, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. We currently have no infrastructure to support the commercialization of any of our product candidates, and have little, if any, experience in the commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Therefore, if we successfully develop any product candidate, and it is ultimately approved for sale, our future profitability will depend largely on our ability to access, arrange or develop suitable marketing and sales capabilities. Other than potentially the sale of laninamivir octanoate, if approved, to the U.S. or other federal governments for stock-piling measures, we anticipate that we will need to establish relationships with other companies, through license, collaboration, commercialization or similar marketing and sales agreements, to successfully commercialize and market our product candidates in the U.S. and in other countries around the world. To the extent that we enter into these types of agreements with other companies to sell, promote or market our products in the U.S. or abroad, our product revenues, which may be in the form of indirect revenue, a royalty, or a split of profits, may depend largely on their efforts, which may not be successful. In the event we decide to develop our own sales force and marketing capabilities, this may result in us incurring significant costs before the time that we may generate any significant product revenues. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified third parties or marketing or sales personnel, or be able to establish marketing capabilities or an effective sales force. 29 Currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. We collect and pay a portion of our revenue and expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our operating results. We retain the majority of our cash and cash equivalents in U.S. dollars and utilize foreign currency accounts for collection and payment of revenues and expenses for our subsidiaries. Any significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Unless we reach an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo and Hovione with respect to our commercial rights to laninamivir octanoate outside of Japan, disputes between us and these parties may occur and could adversely affect our financial condition and business prospects. Pursuant to our agreement with Daiichi Sankyo, if the parties agree to license the commercial rights to laninamivir octanoate in territories outside Japan to a third-party licensee, we and Daiichi Sankyo share all licensing revenue equally. The agreement does not, however, specifically address the respective rights or obligations of, or any consideration between, the parties in the event that either we or Daiichi Sankyo directly market laninamivir octanoate in territories outside Japan and a license has not been granted to a third-party licensee anywhere in the world. Further, the license agreement that we and Daiichi Sankyo collectively entered into with Hovione for use of the TwinCaps® dry powder inhaler provide we and Daiichi Sankyo with the exclusive right to import, export, make, use, distribute for sale, drug product comprised of laninamivir octanoate and the TwinCaps® dry powder inhaler (“Drug Product”) worldwide in the field of preventing and/or treating influenza infections. The contract specifies what consideration is payable to Hovione in the event drug product is marketed by a third-party licensee other than we or Daiichi Sankyo outside of Japan. The agreement does not, however, specifically address the respective rights or obligations of, or any consideration between, the parties in the event that either we or Daiichi Sankyo directly market drug product in territories outside Japan. The consideration potentially payable to Daiichi Sankyo under our license with it, if any, or to Hovione under our license with it, related to direct sales of laninamivir octanoate we may generate in territories outside of Japan is uncertain. If we fail to reach a mutually acceptable commercial agreement in the future with either Daiichi Sankyo, Hovione, or both with respect to the development and marketing of laninamivir octanoate or drug product outside of Japan, disputes could result, which could further result in arbitration, litigation or other legal proceedings, or delay our ability to generate significant revenue from the sale of such products outside Japan. Such proceedings can be expensive and consume a significant amount of managements’ time. We cannot assure you we will reach a satisfactory commercial agreement with Daiichi Sankyo or Hovione in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CONTRACTS WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT If BARDA suspends, cancels, or otherwise terminates our contract with them, our financial condition and business could be materially harmed. BARDA is a U.S. government agency and has certain contracting requirements that allow it to unilaterally control its contracts. Contracts with U.S. government agencies typically contain termination provisions unfavorable to the other party, and are subject to audit and modification by the U.S. government at its sole discretion, which can subject us to additional risks. , These risks include the ability of the U.S. government to unilaterally: ● audit or object to our contract-related costs and fees, and require us to reimburse all such costs and fees; ● suspend or prevent us from receiving new contracts or extending our existing contracts for a set period of time based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; ● cancel, terminate or suspend our contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; ● terminate our contracts if doing so is in the government’s best interest, including if funds become unavailable to the applicable governmental agency; ● reduce the scope and value of our contracts; and ● change certain terms and conditions in our contracts. BARDA is able to terminate its contracts with us, either for its best interests or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with, or to achieve the milestones set forth in the contract schedules and terms. Termination-for-convenience provisions generally enable us to recover only our costs incurred or committed and settlement expenses on the work completed prior to termination. The U.S. government’s determination to award any contracts may be challenged by an interested party, such as another competitor or bidder. If such a challenge is successful, our contract or any future contract we may be awarded may be reduced, suspended or terminated, which would harm our financial condition and prospects. The laws and regulations governing the procurement of goods and services by the U.S. government provide procedures by which other bidders and interested parties may challenge the award of a government contract. Such challenges or protests could be filed even if there are not any valid legal grounds on which to base the protest. If any such protests are filed, the government agency may decide to suspend our performance under the contract while such protests are being considered by the GAO or the applicable federal court, thus potentially delaying delivery of payment. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable funds to defend any potential award. If a protest is successful, the government may be ordered to limit or terminate any one or more of our contracts and reselect bids. The government agencies with which we have contracts could also be directed to award a potential contract to one of the other bidders. 30 Under our contract with BARDA, our operations, and those of our contractors, are subject to audit by the U.S. government, a negative outcome to which could adversely affect financial condition and business. U.S. government agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) and the Defense Contract Audit Agency, (“DCAA”), routinely audit and investigate government contractors and recipients of federal grants. These agencies evaluate a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DHHS and the DCAA also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must generally be repaid. If an audit identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to: ● termination of contracts; ● forfeiture of profits; ● suspension of payments; ● fines; and ● suspension or prohibition from conducting business with the United States government. Any contracts we have with U.S. government agencies may lead to claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act, and these claims could result in substantial fines and other penalties, which could harm our financial condition, reputation and prospects. Our U.S. government contracts are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the Federal Civil False Claims Act. Under the False Claims Act’s “whistle blower” provisions, private enforcement of fraud claims against businesses on behalf of the U.S. government has increased due in part to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistle blower suits may be filed by individuals, including present and former employees. The False Claims Act statute provides for treble damages and up to $11,000 per false claim. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws, or any other U.S. governmental regulation that applies to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY If we are unable to adequately protect or expand our intellectual property related to our products or current or future product candidates, our business prospects could be harmed. Our business success depends in part on our ability to: ● obtain and maintain and protect our intellectual property rights; ● protect our trade secrets; and ● prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights or patents. We will be able to protect our proprietary intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to ultimately enforce our patents or proprietary rights. Therefore, any issued patents that we own or otherwise have rights to may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide us with the protection against competitors that we anticipate. The degree of future protection for our proprietary intellectual property rights is uncertain because issued patents and other legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. 31 Our future patent position will be influenced by the following factors: ● we, or our licensors, may not have been the first to discover the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to engage in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; ● our, or our licensors’, pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; ● our, or our licensors’, issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; and ● third parties may develop intellectual property around our or our licensors’ patent claims to design competitive intellectual property and ultimately product candidates that fall outside the scope of our or our licensors’ patents. Due to the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review and approval of a product candidate, it is possible that before a product candidate of ours can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire, or such patent rights may remain in force for only a short period following marketing approval. We currently rely on certain patents to provide us and our licensees with exclusive rights for certain of our products. When all patents underlying a license expire, our revenue from that license may cease, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace it with revenue from new or existing licenses. Our patents relating to Relenza® will expire in December 2014 in the U.S., May 2015 in Australia, 2016 in the major countries of the European Union, and July 2019 in Japan. The patent relating to the structure of laninamivir octanoate expires in 2017 in the U.S., EU and Japan. The patent relating to hydrates and the crystalline form of laninamivir octanoate used in the product expires in 2021(without extensions) in the U.S. and EU and in 2024 in Japan. The patent relating to the dry powder inhaler device used for Inavir®, known as TwinCaps® expires in 2029 in the U.S., and in 2027 in the EU and Japan. Patent expirations will in all likelihood adversely affect our ability to protect or maintain our direct product or royalty revenue. Also, patent rights may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., and certain countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, we may not be able to prevent a third party from infringing our patents in a country that does not recognize or enforce patent rights, or that imposes compulsory licenses on or restricts the prices of life-saving drugs. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We may need to in-license certain technologies to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we or our licensors do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the products or technologies licensed, or may otherwise be limited in scope. In addition, we may not have total control over the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license from others. Accordingly, we may be unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any pending or issued patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. We cannot assure you of the degree of protection that will be afforded by any of our issued or pending patents, or those licensed by us. We cannot be sure that any patents will be issued from the patent applications we own or have licensed or, should any patents issue, that we will be provided with adequate protection against potentially competitive products. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that patents issued or licensed to us will be of any commercial value, or that private parties or competitors will not successfully challenge these patents or circumvent our patent position in the U.S. or abroad. In the absence of adequate patent protection, our business may be adversely affected by competitors who develop comparable technology or products. If a third-party claims we are infringing on its intellectual property rights, we could incur significant expenses, or be prevented from further developing or commercializing our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. Our success will also depend on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary intellectual property rights of third parties. This is generally referred to as having the “freedom to operate.” The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property claims, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, both in the U.S. and internationally, involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are lengthy, costly and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. We may become involved in protracted and expensive litigation in order to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others, or to determine whether we have the freedom to operate with respect to the intellectual property rights of others. Patent applications in the U.S. are, in most cases, maintained in secrecy until approximately 18 months after the patent application is filed. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to product candidates similar to ours may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event that a third party has also filed a patent application covering our product candidate or other claims, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference proceeding, in the USPTO or similar proceedings in other countries, to determine the priority of invention. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal fees and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing the development and commercialization of a product candidate and may be subject to injunctions and/or damage awards. 32 In the future, the USPTO or a foreign patent office may grant patent rights to our product candidates or other claims to third parties. Subject to the issuance of these future patents, the claims of which will be unknown until issued, we may need to obtain a license or sublicense to these rights in order to have the appropriate freedom to further develop or commercialize them. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we need to obtain such licenses or sublicenses, but are unable to do so, we could encounter delays in the development of our product candidates, or be prevented from developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates at all. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent and do not have the freedom to operate, we could be subject to injunctions, and/or compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. In cases where we have in-licensed intellectual property, our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such agreements could harm our business. It is becoming common for third parties to challenge patent claims on any successfully developed product candidate or approved drug. If we or our collaborators become involved in any patent litigation, interference or other legal proceedings, we could incur substantial expense, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel could be significantly diverted. A negative outcome of such litigation or proceedings may expose us to the loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling our product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is obtainable, or prior to us filing patent applications on inventions we may make from time-to time. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate and academic partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. RISKS RELATED TO OWNING OUR COMMON STOCK Our revenue, expenses and results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations, which will make it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. Our revenues have historically been highly variable. Royalty revenues we earn are derived from the net sales of products used for the treatment and/or prevention of influenza. Influenza as a disease is seasonal and highly unpredictable, and sales of these products fluctuate in line with the nature and extent of the incidence and severity of influenza each season. Payments potentially due to us under our existing or any future collaborative arrangements, including any milestone and royalty payments, are generally intermittent in nature and are subject to significant fluctuation in both timing and amount, or may never be earned or paid. In addition, the return of products to our licensees is taken into account in the calculation of net sales for purposes of calculating the royalty revenue we receive and are in general unpredictable. Further, revenue we record under our contract with BARDA in any given period is based on the reimbursable costs we incur during that period, which have and will continue to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenue may be highly variable, and comparisons to previous periods may be difficult to make. Our historical and current revenues may not be indicative of our ability to achieve additional payment-generating milestones or royalties in the future. We expect that our operating results will also vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year as a result of the initiation and success or failure of preclinical studies or clinical trials, the timing of the formulation and manufacture of our product candidates, or other development related factors. Accordingly, our revenues, expenses and results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the revenues, expenses or results of operations for any other period. 33 The reporting requirements of being a company publicly-traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) increase our overall operating costs and subject us to increased costs and regulatory risk that may negatively impact our business or our ability to raise capital in the future. As a company publicly-traded on NASDAQ, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and the listing requirements of NASDAQ. Further, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, management must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditor must perform their own assessment on our internal control over financial reporting. This testing is expensive and requires the attention of our limited management resources. The various financial reporting, legal, corporate governance and other obligations associated with being a publicly-traded company on NASDAQ in the U.S. require us to incur significant expenditures and place additional demands and requirements on our board of directors and executive officers, as well as other administrative, operational and financial personnel and resources. If we are unable to comply with these requirements in a timely and effective manner, we and/or our executive officers may be subject to sanctions by the SEC. We expect that we will continue to incur additional expenses as a result of being a company that is publicly-traded on NASDAQ. The price of our common stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment in us could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including but not limited to: ● our ability to successfully advance our product candidates through preclinical and clinical development; ● disclosure of any favorable or unfavorable data from our preclinical studies or clinical trials, or other regulatory developments concerning our preclinical studies or clinical trials, the formulation and manufacturing of our product candidates, or those of our competitors; ● the approval or commercialization of new products by us or our competitors, and the disclosure thereof; ● Variation, suspension or termination of the contract we have with BARDA, or its funding ability; ● novel scientific innovations by us or our competitors; ● rumors relating to us or our competitors; ● public concern about the safety or tolerability of our products, product candidates, or similar classes of compounds; ● litigation to which we may become subject; ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual revenue or operating results; ● changes in general conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; ● changes in drug reimbursement rates or government policies related to such reimbursement; ● significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; ● new regulatory legislation adopted in the U.S. or abroad; ● changes in patent legislation in the U.S. or abroad; ● our failure to achieve or meet equity research analysts’ expectations or their estimates of our business or prospects, or a change in their recommendations concerning us, the value of our common stock or our industry in general; ● termination or delay in any of our existing or future collaborative arrangements; ● future sales of equity or debt securities, or the perception that such future sales may occur; ● the loss of our eligibility to have shares of our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market due to our failure to maintain minimum listing standards or other listed markets; ● changes in accounting principles or a restatement of previously reported financial results; ● failure to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of publicly-owned companies under the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and ● general economic conditions and capital markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and more specifically the NASDAQ Global Select Market, upon which our common stock trades, and the market for smaller biotechnology stocks in particular have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for a particular biotechnology company’s stock has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that company. Market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Due to this volatility, you may be unable to sell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, which could generate losses. In order to develop our product candidates and support our operations beyond 12 months from June 30, 2013 and continue as a going concern, we may need to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, which could materially harm our financial condition, business and business prospects. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents of $66.8 million as of June 30, 2013, along with the anticipated proceeds from existing royalty-bearing licenses for Relenza® and Inavir® and our contract with BARDA, will enable us to operate for a period of at least 12 months from June 30, 2013. This estimate assumes that we continue current operations and development plans with our existing product candidates, but does not include the impact of in-licensing or acquiring other clinical-stage development programs, any other significant transaction or change in our strategy or development plans in the near-future. We currently do not have any commitments for additional future funding, nor do we anticipate that we will generate any significant incremental revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates in the foreseeable future. Therefore, in order to meet our anticipated liquidity needs beyond 12 months to continue the development of our product candidates, or possibly sooner in the event we in-license or acquire another clinical-stage development program, enter into other transactions, change our strategy or accelerate our development plans, we may need to secure additional capital. In the event we need to raise additional capital, we expect to raise it primarily through the sale of our common stock or other equity securities, as well as potentially through forms of debt financing or other financing vehicles we may enter into in the future. Funds from these sources may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and our failure to raise such funds could have a material adverse impact on our future business strategy, plans, financial condition and results of operations. If adequate capital is not available to us on acceptable terms in the future, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, or delay or curtail our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If additional capital is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may also need to obtain funds through license agreements, or collaborative or partner arrangements, pursuant to which we will likely relinquish rights potentially valuable rights to certain of our product candidates that we might otherwise choose to develop or commercialize independently, or be forced to enter into such arrangements earlier than we would prefer, which would likely result in less favorable transaction terms. Additional equity financings may be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant payment obligations and restrictive covenants that restrict how we operate our business. 34 The timing and extent of our future financing needs are uncertain and will depend on many factors, some of which are very difficult to predict and others that may be beyond our control, including: ● the variability of future royalty revenue we may receive under our existing royalty-bearing license agreements; ● continuing to receive sufficient revenue under our contract with BARDA to advance the development of laninamivir octanoate in the U.S.; ● the development timelines and plans for our product candidates, including any changes to those timelines, plans or our strategy; ● the variability, timing and costs associated with conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, the rate of enrollment in such clinical trials, and the results of these clinical trials: ● the variability, timing and costs associated with conducting preclinical studies, and the results of these studies; ● the cost of scaling up, formulating and manufacturing preclinical and clinical trial materials to evaluate our product candidates; ● whether we receive regulatory approval to advance the clinical development of our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all; ● the cost and time to obtain regulatory approvals required to advance the development of our product candidates; ● the scope and size of our research and development efforts; ● the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish in the future; ● the cost to maintain a corporate infrastructure to support being a publicly-traded company in the U.S. on NASDAQ; and ● the cost of filing, prosecuting, and enforcing patent and other intellectual property claims. Future issuances of shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline, even if our business is doing well. The sale and issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales could occur, including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other insiders or their affiliates, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. If we raise additional capital in the future, your level of ownership in us could be diluted or require us to relinquish rights. Any issuance of securities we may undertake in the future to raise additional capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those newly issued shares being dilutive. Further, if we obtain funds through a debt financing or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as a common stockholder, which could impair the value of our common stock. Any debt financing we enter into may include covenants that limit our flexibility in conducting our business. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others, which might require us to relinquish valuable rights to our intellectual property or product candidates that we would have otherwise retained. 35 We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and accordingly, you must rely on appreciation in the price of our common stock for any return on your investment in us. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, our common stock will likely only provide a return to stockholders in the event there is appreciation in its price. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the laws of Delaware contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or in our management. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Delaware, the state in which we are incorporated, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in our directors or management that stockholders may consider favorable. These certain provisions: ● allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors; ● provide that our stockholders may remove our directors only for cause; ● authorize our Board of Directors to issue without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights of which will be determined at the discretion of the Board of Directors that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors; ● establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our Board of Directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; ● limit who may call stockholder meetings; and ● contain a fair price provision. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the voting rights on our common stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to remove and elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OTHER ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of Nabi Biopharmaceuticals and Biota Holdings in a timely manner, if at all, which could increase our cost of doing business or harm our operations and business prospects. On November 8, 2012 we were formed as a result of the merger of Nabi and Biota Holdings Limited, with the resulting organization being called Biota Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The relocation of the corporate headquarters and integrating the operations and financial and legal records between the organizations is still ongoing. In addition, we appointed a new CEO and Executive Vice President in the U.S. subsequent to the merger. We may incur additional costs and consume a significant amount of management’s time to integrate our U.S., Australian and United Kingdom operations, including information systems, financial records, reporting systems, internal controls and legal contracts, in a timely manner, if at all. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us for uninsured liabilities, or such claim exceeds our insurance coverage, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards that could materially harm our business. The use of any of our existing or future product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved pharmaceutical products may expose us to significant product liability claims. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for our ongoing clinical trials in the amount of $15 million. Such insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims that may be brought against us in the future. We may not be able to acquire or maintain adequate product liability insurance coverage at a commercially reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. In the event any of our product candidates are approved for sale by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries and commercialized, we may need to substantially increase the amount of our product liability coverage. Defending any product liability claim or claims could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If our use of hazardous materials results in contamination or injury, we could suffer significant reputational or financial loss. Our research activities may involve the controlled use of certain hazardous chemical and biological materials from time-to-time. Notwithstanding the various regulations controlling the use and disposal of these materials, as well as the safety procedures we undertake, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge or exposure, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may negatively impact our operations, our financial resources or our ability to recruit new staff. 36 Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards to reduce taxable income generated in the future could be substantially limited or eliminated. Our ability to use our net operating losses is subject to limitations and re-assessment due to ownership changes that have occurred or that could occur in the future, in the U.S., Australia and the United Kingdom. Depending on the actual amount of any limitation on our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, a significant portion of our future taxable income could be taxable. Additionally, tax law limitations may result in our net operating losses expiring before we have the ability to use them. In addition, financing and acquisition transactions that we may enter into in the future could significantly limit or eliminate our ability to realize any value from our net operating losses. We have adopted a corporate strategy, a component of which reflects our intent to pursue in-licensing, acquisition, co-development, and other similar collaborative clinical-stage development opportunities to better balance our pipeline. We may be unable to implement or successfully execute on this component of our strategy on a timely basis, if at all, which could harm our business. The number of clinical-stage development programs available for in-licensing, acquisition or co-development are limited, and there are numerous other large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies competing for these same opportunities. Many of these companies have greater capital resources, experience and capabilities than we have. We may not be able to successfully identify or execute a transaction for any suitable in-licensing, acquisition or co-development candidates, or be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. Any transactions we may complete in the future or potential future strategic decisions we make may disappoint investors and depress the price of our common stock and the value of your investment in our common stock. Further, we may need to raise capital to acquire or support the transaction, incur acquisition fees or other non-recurring charges, and face significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. 