ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this document that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements and include statements about our marketed products, products in development, demand for our products, clinical trials and studies, licensure applications and approvals, assessment of the StaphVAX phase III trial results, and alliances and partnerships. You can identify these forward-looking statements because they involve our expectations, beliefs, projections, anticipations, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of any number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to: successfully partner with third parties to fund, develop, manufacture and/or distribute our existing and pipeline products; obtain successful clinical trial results, including results from our Phase IIb NicVAX “proof-of-concept” study generate sufficient cash flow from sales of products or from milestone or royalty payments to fund our development and commercialization activities attract and maintain the human and financial resources to commercialize current products and bring to market products in development; attract, retain and motivate key employees; obtain a commercial partner to fund research, development and commercialization activities to advance our Gram-positive infections program; depend upon third parties to manufacture or fill our products; obtain regulatory approval for our products in the U.S. or other markets; realize sales from Nabi-HB due to patient treatment protocols and the number of liver transplants performed in HBV-positive patients; achieve market acceptance of our products; expand our sales and marketing capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to market and sell our products; effectively and/or profitability use, or utilize the full capacity of, our vaccine manufacturing facility; manufacture NicVAX or other products in our own vaccine manufacturing facility; comply with reporting and payment obligations under government rebate and pricing programs; raise additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all; and re-pay our outstanding convertible senior notes when due. These factors and others are more fully discussed below. 26 Table of Contents Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have entered into and will continue to enter into strategic alliances that may not be successful and may adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. In 2006, we entered into strategic alliances with respect to certain of our biopharmaceutical products in development, including agreements with Fresenius Biotech, Fresenius USA Manufacturing, Inc., or Fresenius, Kedrion and ProMetic. We also intend to enter into other strategic alliances in the future as a means of funding our development activities. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing certain of our biopharmaceutical products in development and to fund these activities currently requires us to enter into and successfully maintain strategic alliances with other pharmaceutical companies or other industry participants to advance our programs and reduce our expenditures on each program. If we fail to enter into or maintain successful strategic alliances for certain of our products in development, we will have to reduce or delay our product development or increase our expenditures or cease development with respect to certain of our pipeline products. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in these efforts or, if successful, that our collaborative partners will conduct their activities in a timely and effective manner. If we are not successful in our efforts, our ability to develop, commercialize or market our products or to fund our operations will be affected adversely. Even if we are successful, if any of our collaborative partners violates or terminates its agreements with us or otherwise fails to complete its collaborative activities in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our products could be delayed. This might require us to devote significant additional resources to product development or commercialization or terminate certain development programs. In addition, there can be no assurance that disputes will not arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with third parties. These and other possible disagreements between our collaborative partners and us could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of certain products, or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive and could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of our product candidates and products in development are in or will undergo clinical trials and the results from these trials may not be favorable. A number of our product candidates or products in development are in or will undergo clinical trials. These trials may not meet their defined end points, and, even if they do achieve their end points, we cannot be certain that results from future clinical trials will be positive. The results of our Phase III trial of StaphVAX announced in November 2005 were not positive. In late 2006, we completed enrollment of our Phase IIb “proof-of-concept” clinical trial for NicVAX which we expect to complete in the first half of 2007. Unfavorable clinical trial results in any clinical trial could adversely affect our business plans and have an adverse effect on our market valuation and/or our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from our biopharmaceutical and antibody products, achieve milestones necessary to receive royalty or milestone payments or obtain financing necessary to fund our research or development or commercialization activities at an appropriate level. We generate revenues from sales of our biopharmaceutical and antibody products. We ceased to generate revenues from sales of two of these products, WinRho SDF, in March 2005 when our exclusive distribution agreement in the U.S. ended and from PhosLo, in October 2006 when we sold this product to Fresenius. We also have generated or anticipate generating revenues from milestone or royalty payments under various strategic alliance agreements, including our agreement with Fresenius. We have incurred and expect to continue incurring significant expenses associated with our biopharmaceutical research and development activities, including the 27 Table of Contents cost of clinical trials, marketing and other commercialization expenses. Our products under development may not generate sales for several years or at all. Our current revenues from sales of biopharmaceutical and antibody products are insufficient to fund our products under development. We do not have the financial resources to fund all of our biopharmaceutical product development programs to completion. Therefore, our ability to continue to fund all of our ongoing research and development activities depends on our ability to generate sales from our biopharmaceutical and antibody products, to obtain commercial or development partners, to receive milestone and royalty payments, that are not under our exclusive control, and, our ability to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to fund our research and development activities at the level required to commercialize all of our biopharmaceutical product development programs. If we are required to reduce the funding for certain of our research and development activities, this could have a material adverse effect on our future prospects. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenue is unpredictable and may fluctuate due to the timing of non-recurring licensing fees, decisions of our collaborative partners with respect to our agreements with them, the achievement of milestones or our receipt of the related milestone payments under existing and future licensing, collaboration or asset sale agreements. Our expenses are unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to the timing of expenses, which may include obligations to manufacture or supply product or royalty or milestone payments owed by us under licensing, collaboration or other agreements. Our present operations, as we are currently structured, places a greater reliance on our meeting projected milestones in order to generate cash flow to finance our operations. Should we encounter difficulties in meeting significant milestones, many of which are outside of our control, resulting cash flow difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our existing capital resources and our ability to control expenditures will enable us to maintain our operations for at least the next twelve months based on current activities; however, to fully fund ongoing and planned activities beyond the next twelve months we will need to raise additional funds. Our operations will require significant additional funding in the future due to our current and future clinical development and commercialization efforts. The following are illustrations of potential impediments to our ability to successfully secure additional funds: • the trading price of our common stock may affect our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity; • our Phase III trial for StaphVAX did not meet its defined primary end point; • our revenues from continuing operations have declined over the last three years; and • the outstanding indebtedness from our 2.875% convertible senior notes issued in 2005 and the terms of the related indenture may discourage additional financing. We may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing, collaborative arrangements with strategic partners or from other sources. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some or all rights to our technologies or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to defer certain investments in research, product development, manufacturing, commercialization or business development, or otherwise modify our business strategy, and it could adversely affect our market valuation, results of operations or financial position. 28 Table of Contents To be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the inability to do so could seriously harm our operations. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biopharmaceutical industry depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. In order to induce valuable employees to remain at the Company, in 2006 we created a retention program offering to certain key employees cash and equity incentives that vest over time. Some of these awards fully vested in 2007 and some will fully vest in 2009. The value to the employees of these incentives is significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, manufacturing, research and clinical teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. The loss of the services of any of our key employees could potentially harm our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level, and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level, and senior manufacturing, research and clinical personnel. Other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles, and a longer history in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than what we have to offer. If we are unable to grow our business according to our business plan, including by developing or acquiring additional drug products, we may become a less attractive place to work for our existing employees and for high quality candidates. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, the rate and success at which we can discover, develop and commercialize drug candidates will be limited. We will not be able to advance of our Gram-positive infections program without obtaining a commercial partner to fund research, development and commercialization activities. In March 2006, we determined, based on the conclusions reached by us and an outside advisory panel that reviewed our investigation of the outcome of the StaphVAX confirmatory Phase III clinical study, that we would continue development of our Gram-positive program, led by StaphVAX® [Staphylococcus aureus Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine] and Altastaph® [ Staphylococcus aureus Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)]. There can be no assurance that our assessment and conclusion or the assessment and conclusion of the outside advisory panel is correct. We do not plan to significantly advance development of our Gram-positive program, including our next generation StaphVAX and Altastaph products, or commence a new clinical trial in our Gram-positive program without obtaining a partner to fund research and development and commercialization activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully collaborate with a partner on terms sufficient to fund or assume our continued research and development activities at the level required to commercialize these products or at all. Even if we are successful in obtaining a partner and/or funding, our collaborative partners may not conduct their activities in a timely or effective manner. Our inability to successfully partner and/or fund the development of our next generation Gram-positive products, or our inability to successfully develop such products, would adversely affect our future business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend upon third parties to manufacture certain biopharmaceutical products and products that are the subject of milestone and royalty payments we depend upon to fund our operations. We depend upon third parties to fill and finish certain products manufactured by us, including Nabi-HB and our products in development, to manufacture and fill other products including Aloprim and other products in development and to manufacture, fill and sell products with respect to which we may receive milestone and royalty payments, including a new formulation of PhosLo. At 29 Table of Contents times, contract manufacturers and fill and finishers have failed to meet our needs and we have experienced product losses at our contract fill and finisher that have resulted in the loss of product and a resulting delay in supply. During 2006, we lost $0.9 million of Nabi-HB inventory due to problems at our contract fill and finisher. Our ability to receive milestone or royalty payments, which is a source of funding for our operations, could be adversely affected by the inability of third parties to manufacture products that may generate milestone or royalty revenues due to a lack of manufacturing experience or an inability to receive or delay in receiving licensure of manufacturing facilities for clinical supply or commercial manufacture. Since 2000, our ability to market Aloprim has been adversely affected at certain times by our inability to obtain necessary quantities of this product from our contract manufacturer. The failure of our contract manufacturers or contract fill and finishers to supply us with sufficient amounts of product to meet our clinical or commercial needs, or to renew their contracts with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to manufacture or have manufactured products that may generate milestone or royalty revenues for us, would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our plans to license and commercialize HEBIG in the EU may not be successful. Using the Mutual Recognition Process, we filed an MAA for Nabi-HB Intravenous, HEBIG, in the EU during 2004. In 2006 we withdrew this MAA based on discussions with regulators to reformulate the product to comply with EU regulations. We plan to resubmit the MAA for HEBIG in the first half of 2007. There can be no assurance that such approval will be timely. If we receive approval to begin commercial sales of HEBIG in any country in the EU, there can be no assurance that such approval is commercially feasible. If we receive approval, we intend to launch HEBIG through a sales distributor or commercialization partner and there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a suitable sales distributor or commercialization partner or a partner on reasonable financial terms, or at all. Following approval in each country, we or our distributor or commercialization partner will then need to seek reimbursement in that country. There can be no assurance that reimbursement approval will be at sufficient levels in each country will be obtained from any of the countries where such approval is sought or that reimbursement is approved at all. Any delays in or failure to obtain licensure or reimbursement approvals, or the failure to obtain reimbursement approvals at sufficient levels, or any delays in commercialization could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have no direct experience in obtaining licensure of these products in the EU or other non-U.S. markets. The market may not be receptive to our products upon their introduction. There can be no assurance that any of our products in development will achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the clinical efficacy and safety of our products • the potential advantages over existing treatment methods to the medical community; • results of clinical studies conducted by our competitors; • regulatory approvals; • any limitation of indications in regulatory approvals; • the prices of such products; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. 30 Table of Contents The failure of our development product pipeline or marketed products to gain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be successful in licensing or operating our vaccine manufacturing plant. We have constructed a vaccine plant in our Boca Raton, Florida manufacturing facility designed to allow us to produce the vaccines in our product pipeline. The plant is designed to process several vaccines on a commercial scale. We have not previously owned or operated such a plant and have no direct experience in commercial, large-scale manufacturing of vaccine products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in licensing the plant or, if FDA and/or EU licensures are received, that the costs to validate the plant will be reasonable, that we will have or be able to obtain products to manufacture in the plant, or that we can operate the plant efficiently and profitably. Our failure to successfully and profitably operate our new vaccine plant could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capabilities in the future or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to market and sell our products, our ability to commercialize our products in development may be harmed. Currently we only have a small sales force. Our sales force was significantly reduced in 2006 following the sale of our PhosLo business to Fresenius. To promote our future biopharmaceutical products in the U.S. and EU, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating sufficient demand for our products. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenue may be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products. We expect to rely on third-party distributors and/or commercial partners for substantially all of our international sales. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate significant revenue, or revenue at all. Claims or concerns may arise regarding the safety of our marketed products, which could lead to product withdrawals, reduced sales or product recalls. Regulatory approvals for any of our marketed products may be withdrawn for a number of reasons, including the later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, such as a previously unknown safety issue. In addition, post-marketing studies, which may be sponsored by us or our competitors, may present evidence that another product is safer or more effective than one of our products, which could lead to reduced sales of our product. Finally, claims or concerns may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of one of our marketed products, which could lead to a product recall. Product withdrawals, reduced sales, or product recalls could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are not currently able to utilize the full capacity of our Boca Raton, Florida manufacturing facility and we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to optimize the value of our current operations. We began commercial manufacture of Nabi-HB at our Boca Raton, Florida manufacturing facility in the fourth quarter of 2001. For the foreseeable future, we will not utilize the full manufacturing capacity of the facility and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate the facility efficiently. There can be no assurance that we will have either our own products to manufacture or those of others to offset the cost of the facility’s operation. Our failure to fully utilize the capacity of the plant or to manufacture products successfully could require us to write down or write off some or all of the tangible or intangible assets related to the facility and could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents A disaster at our sole manufacturing site would interrupt our manufacturing capability for the products produced there. Currently, Nabi-HB is only manufactured at our manufacturing facility in Boca Raton, Florida. Manufacturing products at a single site presents risks because a disaster, such as a fire or hurricane, may interrupt manufacturing capability. In such an event, we will have to resort to alternative sources of manufacturing, if available at all, that could increase our costs or result in significant product supply delays while required regulatory approvals are obtained. Any such delays or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on our manufacturing facility in Boca Raton, Florida for the pre-launch manufacture of several of our products in development. If an interruption of our manufacturing capability occurs, we could have to resort to alternative sources of manufacturing that could increase our costs or result in significant product development or launch delays while required regulatory approvals are obtained. Our BLA license application for Nabi-HB Intravenous may not be approved. Our BLA license application for Nabi-HB Intravenous that was filed in November 2002 may not be approved by the FDA. Nabi-HB is a human polyclonal antibody product currently indicated to prevent hepatitis B, or HBV, infection following accidental exposure to the virus. We believe the majority of our Nabi-HB sales are used to prevent re-infection with hepatitis B disease in HBV-positive liver transplant patients. Nabi-HB is not currently labeled for this use. In July 2006 the Blood Products Advisory Committee (BPAC) of the FDA rendered a positive opinion of our BLA for Nabi-HB Intravenous, voting to recommend approval of its use for the prevention of recurrence of hepatitis B after liver transplant. The FDA usually follows the recommendations of its Advisory Committees, but it is not obligated to do so. Our inability to obtain licensure from the FDA for Nabi-HB Intravenous could have an adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales of Nabi-HB are directly related to patient treatment protocols and the small number of liver transplants performed in HBV-positive patients, over which we have no control. Our sales of Nabi-HB are primarily for the care of HBV-positive liver transplant patients at the time of and for a maintenance period following liver transplant. The number of liver transplants that occur depends on the number of livers available for transplant. The number of livers used for HBV-positive liver transplant candidates as well as the dosing of Nabi-HB may vary from time to time based on the following factors: • changes in overall organ availability; • allocations of available organs to eligible potential recipients; • changes in the treatment protocols applied to HBV-positive patients; • availability of alternative treatments and competitive products, such as anti-viral drugs products; and • changes in reimbursement regimes including the Medicare Modernization Act in the U.S., that may provide a negative incentive for the use of certain of our products in future periods. Each of these factors is outside our control. Sales of Nabi-HB may be adversely affected if patient treatment protocols change or the number of hepatitis B liver transplants decreases. Sales of Nabi-HB Intravenous, if it is licensed, may be similarly affected. This could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents A reduction in the availability of specialty antibodies could adversely affect our ability to manufacture an adequate amount of Nabi-HB or our other products under development or to fulfill contractual obligations. Our ability to manufacture Nabi-HB today and Nabi-HB Intravenous, or HEBIG in the EU, and certain other products under development, will depend upon the availability of specialty antibodies that we primarily obtain from our nine FDA approved antibody collection centers. We also have contractual obligations to supply to third parties other specialty antibodies that we also obtain from our FDA approved antibody collection centers. Specialty antibodies are more difficult to obtain than non-specific antibodies. Reduced availability of the necessary specialty antibodies would adversely affect our ability to manufacture an adequate amount of Nabi-HB, Nabi-HB Intravenous, or HEBIG in the EU or certain other products under development, or to fulfill our contractual obligations, that could have an adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell our products to a small number of customers. The loss of any major customer could have a material adverse effect on our future business results of operations or financial condition. We sell a significant portion of our biopharmaceutical products to pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors. In 2006, three such customers accounted for 54% of our total consolidated sales. A loss of any of the customers or a material reduction in such customers’ purchases or inventories on hand at their sites could have a material adverse effect on our future business results of operations and financial condition. We also maintain a significant receivable balance with each of these customers. If these customers become unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our non-specific antibody sales in 2006 were primarily to a single customer. The loss of this customer or a material reduction in its purchases of antibodies could have a material adverse effect upon our future business, financial condition and results of operations. New treatments may reduce the demand for our antibodies and antibody-based biopharmaceutical products. Most of the antibodies we collect, process and sell to our customers are used in the manufacture of biopharmaceutical products to treat certain diseases. Several companies are marketing and developing monoclonal antibody products to treat some of these diseases based on technology that would reduce or eliminate the need for human antibodies. Such products could adversely affect the demand for antibodies and antibody-based biopharmaceutical products. We are unable to predict the impact of future technological advances on our business. We may not be able to develop and commercialize new biopharmaceutical products successfully or in a timely manner, which could adversely impact our future operations. Our future success will depend on our ability to achieve scientific or technological advances and to translate such advances into commercially competitive products on a timely basis. Our biopharmaceutical products under development are at various stages, and substantial further development, pre-clinical testing or clinical trials will be required to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability. Our proposed development schedules for these products may be affected by a variety of factors, including: • lack of funding; • technological difficulties; 33 Table of Contents • competition; • failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals; • failure to achieve desired results in clinical trials; • proprietary technology positions of others; • positive clinical results for competitive therapies; • reliance on third parties for manufacturing; • failure to market effectively; and • changes in government regulation. Positive results for a product in a clinical trial do not necessarily assure that positive results will be obtained in future clinical trials or that we will obtain government approval to commercialize the product. In addition, any delay in the development, introduction or marketing of our products under development could result either in such products being marketed at a time when their cost or performance characteristics might not be competitive in the marketplace or in a shortening of their commercial lives. There can be no assurance that our biopharmaceutical products under development will prove to be technologically feasible or commercially viable or that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or licenses on a timely basis, if at all. Our failure to develop, obtain necessary regulatory approvals or successfully commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and our market valuation. We are unable to pass through certain cost increases to our antibody product customers with which we have supply contracts. A significant amount of our antibodies are sold under contracts that have a remaining term of up to five years. Certain contracts do not permit us to increase prices during the contract term except to reflect changes in customer specifications or new governmental regulations. If our costs of collecting antibodies under these contracts rise for reasons other than changes in customer specifications or new governmental regulations, we are unable to pass on these cost increases to our antibody product contract customers except with the customer’s consent and our ability to fund our operations may be adversely affected. Financial results of operations may be adversely affected. An increase in the supply of or a decrease in the demand for antibody products could materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The worldwide supply of antibodies has fluctuated historically. Future changes in government regulation relating to the collection, fractionation or use of antibodies or any negative public perception about the antibody collection process or the safety of products derived from human blood or antibodies could further adversely affect the overall supply of or demand for antibodies. Increases in supply or decreases in demand of antibody products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA, the EMEA, the Paul Ehrlich Institute in Germany, or PEI, the German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices, or BfArM, or other agencies, the sale of our current and future products could be prevented or delayed. Research, pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. The process of obtaining FDA, EMEA, PEI, BfArM or other required regulatory approvals are lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease; 34 Table of Contents • the quality of submission; • the clinical efficacy and safety of the product; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the compliance record and controls of the manufacturing facility; • the availability of alternative treatments; and • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. Regulatory authorities also may require post-marketing surveillance to monitor potential adverse effects of our products or product candidates. The U.S. Congress, or the FDA in specific situations, can modify the regulatory process. Many of our clinical trials are at a relatively early stage and, except for Nabi-HB, Aloprim and certain non-specific and specialty antibody products, no approval from the FDA or any other government agency for the manufacturing or marketing of any other products under development has been granted. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals to manufacture or market any of our pipeline products. Failure to obtain additional regulatory approvals of products currently marketed or regulatory approval for products under development could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Once approved, a product’s failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecutions. Although we do not have material sales of our biopharmaceutical products outside the U.S. today, our goal is to expand our global presence for these products. Distribution of our products outside the U.S. is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations, vary from country to country. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining these regulatory approvals. In addition, the exports by us of certain of our products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the restriction, suspension or revocation of existing approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. manufacturing, antibody collection, labeling, storage and distribution activities also are subject to strict regulation and licensing by the FDA. Our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility in Boca Raton, Florida is subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and in the future, the EMEA, and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, we may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our antibody collection centers in the U.S. also are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory authorities, and from time to time, we may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure, or the failure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility or our antibody collection centers, to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in corrective action by the FDA, including closure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility or one or more antibody collection centers and fines or penalties. New regulations may be enacted and existing regulations, their interpretation and enforcement, are subject to change. Therefore, there can 35 Table of Contents be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with any regulations or that the costs of such compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Heightened concerns over antibody products and screening measures could adversely affect our antibody production. Our antibody collection centers and our customers for antibody products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Concern over the safety of antibody products has in the past resulted and will likely result in the future in the adoption of more rigorous screening procedures by regulatory authorities and manufacturers of antibody products. In prior years, these changes have resulted in significantly increased costs to us in providing non-specific and specialty antibodies to our customers. New procedures, which include a more extensive investigation into a donor’s background, as well as more sensitive tests, also have disqualified numerous potential donors and discouraged other donors who may be reluctant to undergo the screening procedures. These more stringent measures could adversely affect our antibody production with a corresponding, adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our efforts to increase production to meet customer demand may result in higher costs to attract and retain donors. We may be subject to costly and damaging liability claims relating to antibody contamination and other claims. Antibodies we collect, antibody-based products we manufacture, antibody-based products we market or are developing, such as Nabi-HB and Civacir, and antibody-based products our customers manufacture run the risk of being contaminated with viruses, prions or other infections or contaminating agents. As a result, suits may be filed against our customers and us claiming that the plaintiffs became infected as a result of using contaminated products. Such suits have been filed in the past related to contaminated antibodies, and in a number of suits we were one of several defendants. There can be no assurance that additional lawsuits relating to infection with viruses, prions or other infections or contaminating agents will not be brought against us by persons who have become infected from antibody-based products. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are increasingly subject to litigation, including class action lawsuits, and governmental and administrative investigations and proceedings related to product pricing and marketing practices. There can be no assurance that lawsuits will not be filed against us or that we will be successful in the defense of these lawsuits. Defense of suits can be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the outcome, and an adverse result in one or more suits could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We use and produce hazardous materials. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be costly. Our research and development operations involve the use of hazardous materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are currently classified as a large quantity generator of hazardous waste. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to damages, fines and penalties in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials and waste. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research and development and manufacturing efforts. 36 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability and directors and officers insurance to cover claims against us. Product liability and directors and officers insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, or that existing or future claims against us will be covered by our insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have will offset existing or future claims. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we were unable to obtain directors and officers liability insurance, it could affect adversely our ability to attract and retain directors and senior officers. We may not be able to maintain sufficient property insurance on our facilities in Florida. We maintain significant real property assets in Florida. Property insurance for companies with a high concentration of property assets in Florida is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the value of our property increases. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide sufficient protection, and patents of other companies could prevent us from developing and marketing our products. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical firms generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There can be no assurance that existing patent applications will result in issued patents, that we will be able to obtain additional licenses to patents of others or that we will be able to develop additional patentable technology of our own. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by others. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, or, if patents are issued to us, others may design their patents around our patents. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have filed patents or patent applications or received patents relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. Some of these applications or patents may compete with our applications or conflict in certain respects with claims made under our applications. Such a conflict could result in a significant reduction of the coverage of our patents, if issued. In addition, if patents that contain competitive or conflicting claims are issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. If any licenses are required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require in order to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We have received correspondence alleging that our research and plans to commercialize NicVAX infringe certain U.S. and European patent rights. Based upon our current plans for NicVAX we do not believe that any valid U.S. or European patent rights will be infringed on, however, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in our belief if challenged. 37 Table of Contents Additional litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope or validity of third-party proprietary rights or to defend against any claims that our business infringes on third-party proprietary rights. Patent litigation is expensive and could result in substantial cost to us. The costs of patent litigation and our ability to prevail in such litigation will have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on secrecy to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We maintain strict controls and procedures regarding access to and use of our proprietary technology and processes. However, there can be no assurance that these controls or procedures will not be violated, that we would have adequate remedies for any violation, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We compete with larger, better-financed and more mature pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, that are capable of developing and marketing products more effectively than we are able to so. Competition in the development of biopharmaceutical products is intense, both from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and is expected to increase. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger research and development and marketing staffs and budgets than we have, as well as substantially greater experience in developing products and marketing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing biopharmaceutical products. Some of our competitors are able to price their competitive products, at prices that are substantially higher than our product, which provides them with greater gross margins to invest in development and marketing. We compete with our competitors: • to develop and market products; • to acquire products and technologies; and • to attract and retain qualified scientific personnel. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective, affordable or profitable than those that we are developing or marketing. In addition, one or more of our competitors may achieve product commercialization of or patent protection for competitive products earlier than us, which would preclude or substantially limit sales of our products. Several companies are attempting to develop and market products to treat certain diseases based upon technology that would lessen or eliminate the need for human antibodies. The successful development, commercialization or marketing by any of our competitors of any such products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. There are potential limitations on third-party reimbursement, complex regulations for reimbursement of our products and other pricing-related matters that could reduce the sales of our products or may delay or impair our ability to generate sufficient revenues. Our ability to commercialize our biopharmaceutical products and related treatments depends in part upon the availability of, and our ability to obtain adequate levels of, reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private healthcare insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party payer coverage will be available, if at all. Inadequate levels of reimbursement may prohibit us from maintaining price levels sufficient for realization of an adequate return on our investment in developing new 38 Table of Contents biopharmaceutical products or could result in the termination of production of otherwise commercially viable products. Further, there are high levels of regulatory complexity related to reimbursement from U.S. and government payers that can significantly limit available reimbursement for market products. In the U.S., government and other third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the coverage and level of reimbursement for new products approved for marketing by the FDA and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. Also, the trend towards managed healthcare in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for our products. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting or the impact of any healthcare reform could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Within the EU, a number of countries use price controls to limit reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. These price control limits are often derived from the chemical entity of the product, the competitive environment for a product and pricing in relation to other products. Further, price increases in these settings in future periods may be significantly restricted or price decreases in future periods may be mandated. Reimbursement for products within the EU is negotiated in each country. There can be no assurance that that we will receive reimbursement approval from any or all of the countries where we seek such approval or that reimbursement, if approved, will be at sufficient levels in each country. Any delays in or failure to obtain licensure or reimbursement approvals, or the failure to obtain reimbursement approvals at sufficient levels, or any delays in commercialization could adversely affect our market valuation, results of operations and our financial position. There can be no assurance that reimbursement in the U.S., the EU or other markets will be available for our products, or, if available, will not be reduced in the future, or that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. The unavailability of government or third-party reimbursement or the inadequacy of the reimbursement for medical treatments using our products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we are unable to forecast what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage or reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our future business. Current healthcare laws and future legislative changes to the healthcare system may affect our ability to distribute our products profitably. Our operations are also subject to federal and state anti-kickback laws. Certain provisions of the Social Security Act prohibit entities such as us from knowingly and willingly offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any form of remuneration (including any kickbacks, bribe or rebate) in return for the referral of items or services for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services for which payment may be made under a federal health care program. Violation of the federal anti-kickback law is a felony, punishable by criminal fines or imprisonment for up to five years or both. In addition, the DHHS may impose civil penalties or exclude violators from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid or both. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against payments intended to induce referrals of products or services paid by Medicaid or other third party payers. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws and their lack of uniformity, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws would not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results from operations. We may conduct business directly, or with partners, in countries outside of the U.S., which could expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results of operations, which in turn may adversely affect reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repay our convertible senior notes upon maturity or to repurchase them. We have outstanding debt of approximately $109.6 million as of December 30, 2006. Our annual interest expense, including the interest payable on the notes, is approximately $3.7 million. At maturity in 2025, the entire outstanding principal amount of the notes will become due and payable by us. In addition, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase the notes on April 15, 2010, April 15, 2012, April 15, 2015 and April 15, 2020 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as described in the indenture governing the notes. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from our products or are unable to raise additional capital we may not be able to make required payments on the notes or our other obligations, resulting in our default under the terms of the notes and the related indenture, which would permit holders of the notes to accelerate maturity. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the principal amount or repurchase price when due. Our failure to pay the principal amount or repurchase price when due would result in an event of default with respect to the notes. Prior to the notes coming due, we may engage in restructuring or other strategic initiatives that could affect the rate at which the notes convert into our common stock, resulting in the issuance of additional shares of common stock upon conversion of the notes that may dilute or be adverse to the value of our common stock. Conversion of the 2.875% convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under Delaware law and under our stockholder rights plan, could make an acquisition of us more difficult. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. For example, our certificate of incorporation currently contains a fair price provision and also authorizes our board of directors to issue substantial amounts of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could reduce the voting power of the holders of our common stock and junior preferred stock and the likelihood that holders of our common stock and junior preferred stock will receive payments upon liquidation. 40 Table of Contents We also are subject to provisions of Delaware law that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. One of these provisions prevents us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless specified conditions are satisfied. We also have implemented a stockholder rights plan, or poison pill, that would substantially reduce or eliminate the expected economic benefit to an acquirer from acquiring us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. These and other impediments to a third-party acquisition or change of control could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 