ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this document that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements and include statements about potential strategic transactions, products in development, results and analyses of clinical trials and studies, research and development expenses, cash expenditures, licensure applications and approvals, alliances and partnerships, among other matters. You can identify these forward-looking statements because they involve our expectations, intentions, beliefs, plans, projections, anticipations, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of any number of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to pursue and successfully complete a strategic transaction; realize any value for NicVAX in light of our two failed Phase III clinical trials; obtain a successful result in a remaining clinical trial for NicVAX; have GSK exercise its option for NicVAX and commercialize NicVAX; have GSK successfully develop and commercialize any future generation candidate nicotine vaccine; terminate existing NicVAX contract manufacturing and development agreements without significant penalties; collect any further milestones and royalty payments under the PhosLo agreement; maintain sufficient patent protection; avoid products liability claims; maintain sufficient insurance; and use our net operating loss carry forwards. These factors and others are more fully discussed below. Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our strategic alternatives process may not be successful. With the assistance of Piper Jaffray we are exploring the full range of possible strategic alternatives available to us. This includes, but is not limited to, the sale, license or merger of all or part of the Company, liquidation and dissolution, joint ventures, strategic alliances or recapitalization. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any agreements or transactions that will enhance shareholder value. Further, any strategic transaction that is completed ultimately may not deliver the anticipated benefits or enhance shareholder value. Our remaining product candidate has had an unfavorable result from its two Phase III clinical trials. This has had and likely will continue to have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to realize any value for NicVAX. Our remaining product candidate, NicVAX, did not meet the primary endpoint in its two confirmatory Phase III clinical trials the results of which we announced in 2011. This unfavorable clinical result has adversely affected our ability to commercialize and obtain FDA licensure of NicVAX, as well as GSK’s interest in exercising the NicVAX option and therefore our ability to realize any future value from NicVAX. In addition, the unfavorable clinical result could cause GSK to limit or cease development of a next-generation candidate under our exclusive license and option agreement with GSK. Any or all of these outcomes will adversely affect our future business, market valuation, financial condition and results of operations. An unfavorable result in a remaining NicVAX clinical trial would have a material adverse effect on us. NicVAX is being studied in an ongoing investigator-initiated combination clinical trial in the Netherlands with Pfizer’s varenicline (Chantix/Champix). An unfavorable result from this trial will adversely affect our ability to realize any remaining value for NicVAX. GSK may not be successful in developing and commercializing the future generation candidate vaccine. Under the option and license agreement for NicVAX, we granted GSK an exclusive worldwide license to develop, commercialize and manufacture certain future generation candidate vaccines for the prevention or 12 Table of Contents treatment of nicotine addiction based on our NicVAX intellectual property (other than NicVAX and NicVAX Alternatives) and using their own proprietary technologies. We may be eligible for milestones and royalties from such development, if successful. If such development and commercialization by GSK does not progress or is not successful, we will not receive future milestones and royalties related to future generation candidate products which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, market valuation, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon third parties to manufacture and develop NicVAX under various agreements and may owe fees if we terminate these agreements or do not purchase required amounts of product. We depend upon third parties to manufacture NicVAX. We entered into various development agreements with contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs) to both manufacture NicVAX and transfer the manufacturing technologies and know-how of NicVAX. If we terminate some or all of these agreements or do not purchase required amounts of product under them, we will be required to pay certain fees to the CMOs. Our ability to successfully partner our remaining rights to NicVAX may depend on our ability to successfully assign our rights under these agreements to any partner, and our inability to assign them on favorable terms or at all to any partner, would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not collect any further milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement. We may not collect any further milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement with Fresenius. We received $65 million in cash at closing and have received an additional $18 million of milestones as of December 31, 2011. We can also receive up to $67.5 million in additional milestone payments and royalties. The royalties relate to sales of a new product formulation over a base amount for 10 years after the November 14, 2006 closing date. There can be no assurance of the completion of any additional milestone or successful sales of the new product formulation. If any additional milestone is not completed or if sales of the new product formulation do not exceed the base amount, we will not collect the related future milestone or royalty payments under the PhosLo Agreement. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide sufficient protection, and patents of other companies could prevent us or our partners from developing and marketing NicVAX. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical firms generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to biotechnology products and processes, including ours, in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There can be no assurance that existing patent applications will result in issued patents, that we will be able to obtain additional licenses to patents of others or that we will be able to develop additional patentable technology of our own. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us or our partners with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by others. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products, or, if patents are issued to us, others may design their patents around our patents. A number of pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have filed patents or patent applications or received patents relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. Some of these applications or patents may compete with our applications or conflict in certain respects with claims made under our applications. Such a conflict could result in a significant reduction of the coverage of our patents, if issued. In addition, if patents that contain competitive or conflicting claims are issued to others and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, we or our partners may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. See “Business—Patents and Proprietary Rights—Smoking Cessation.” 13 Table of Contents If any licenses are required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require in order to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope or validity of third-party proprietary rights or to defend against any claims that our business infringes on third-party proprietary rights. Patent litigation is expensive and could result in substantial cost to us or our partners. The costs of patent litigation and our ability to prevail in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on secrecy to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We maintain strict controls and procedures regarding access to and use of our proprietary technology and processes. However, there can be no assurance that these controls or procedures will not be violated, that we would have adequate remedies for any violation, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We or our partners may be subject to costly and damaging product liability and other claims in connection with the development and commercialization of NicVAX. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are subject to litigation, including class action lawsuits, and governmental and administrative investigations and proceedings, including with respect to product pricing and marketing practices. There can be no assurance that lawsuits will not be filed against us or our partners, or that we will be successful in the defense of these lawsuits. Defense of suits can be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the outcome, and an adverse result in one or more suits could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance, including products liability and directors and officers insurance, to cover claims against us. Product liability and directors and officers insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that existing or future claims against us will be covered by our insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have will offset any claims. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we were unable to obtain directors and officers liability insurance, it could affect adversely our ability to attract and retain directors and officers. Our ability to use our federal and state net operating loss carry forwards to reduce taxable income generated in the future could be substantially limited or eliminated. Our ability to use our net operating losses is subject to an annual limitation due to ownership changes that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as determined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as similar state regulations. Depending on the actual amount of any limitation on our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, a significant portion of our future taxable income could be subject to federal and/or state income tax, creating federal and/or state income tax liabilities. Additionally, such limitation may result in our net operating losses expiring before we have the ability to use them. Moreover, the Internal Revenue Service may not agree with the amount or timing of prior losses, thereby further limiting our net operating loss carry forward. On August 25, 2011, we entered into a Rights Agreement with American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as rights agent, in an effort to prevent an “ownership change” under Section 382 from occurring and thereby protect the value of our net operating losses. There can be no assurance, however, that the Rights Agreement will prevent an ownership change from occurring or protect the value of the net operating losses. In addition, any transaction that we may enter into as a result of our strategic alternatives process may significantly limit or eliminate our ability to realize any value from our net operating losses. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 