ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investors are encouraged to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this document when considering an investment decision with respect to FRED’S securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or that management currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that instance, the trading price of FRED’S securities could decline, and investors might lose all or part of their investment. Our business is somewhat seasonal. We typically realize a significant portion of our net sales during the Christmas selling season in the fourth quarter. Our inventories and short-term borrowings, if required, increase in anticipation of this holiday season. A seasonal merchandise inventory imbalance could result if for any reason our net sales during the Christmas selling season were to fall below seasonal norms. If for any reason our fourth quarter results were substantially below expectations, our profitability and operating results could be adversely affected by unanticipated markdowns, especially in seasonal merchandise. We operate in a competitive industry. We are in a highly competitive sector of the discount retail industry. This competitive environment subjects us to the risk of reduced profitability because of lower prices, and lower margins, required to maintain our competitive position. We compete with discount stores and with many other retailers, including department stores, variety stores, dollar stores, discount clothing stores, drug stores, grocery stores, outlet stores, convenience stores, warehouse stores and other stores, some of whom may have greater resources than we do. This competitive environment subjects us to various risks, including the ability to continue to provide competitively priced merchandise to our customers that will allow us to maintain profitability and continue store growth. Some of our competitors utilize aggressive promotional activities, advertising programs, and pricing discounts and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not respond effectively to these efforts. Changes in third-party reimbursements, including government programs, could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our sales are funded by federal and state governments and private insurance plans. For the years ended January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, pharmaceutical sales were 33.5% and 31.7% of total sales, respectively. The health care industry is experiencing a trend toward cost-containment with governments and private insurance plans seeking to impose lower reimbursements and utilization restrictions. Payments made under such programs may not remain at levels comparable to the present levels or be sufficient to cover our cost. Private insurance plans may base their reimbursement rates on the government rates. Accordingly, reimbursements may be limited or reduced, thereby adversely affecting our revenues and cash flows. Additionally, and in light of a worsening economy and recent healthcare legislation, government or private insurance plans may adjust scheduled reimbursement payments to us in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition. Changes in consumer demand and product mix and changes in overall economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for product mix. A general slowdown in the United States economy, rising personal debt levels, rising foreclosure rates, rising fuel prices, or changes in government aid, social security, and other means that many of our customers rely upon may adversely affect the spending of our consumers, which would likely result in lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, changes in the types of products available for sale and the selection of products by our customers affect sales, product mix and margins. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, inflation, interest rates, and tax rates, could also adversely affect our business by reducing consumer spending or causing consumers to shift their spending to other products. We might be unable to anticipate these buying patterns and implement appropriate inventory strategies, which would adversely affect our sales and gross profit performance. In addition, increases in fuel and energy costs would increase our transportation costs and overall cost of doing business and could adversely affect our financial statements as a whole. Natural disasters or unusually adverse weather conditions could affect our business. Unusually adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or similar disruptions, could significantly reduce our net sales. In addition, these disruptions could also adversely affect our supply chain efficiency and make it more difficult for us to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise from suppliers. A number of our stores are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and tornadoes. - 10 - - Merchandise supply and pricing and the interruption of and dependence on imports could adversely affect our business. We have maintained good relations with our vendors and believe that we are generally able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors. We purchase a significant portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers, principally in the Far East. As a result, political instability or other events resulting in the disruption of trade from other countries or the imposition of additional regulations relating to duties on imports could cause significant delays or interruptions in the supply of our merchandise or increase our costs. Also, our cost of goods is affected by the fluctuation of local currencies against the dollar in countries where these goods are produced. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold and, if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers, decrease our gross margins and ultimately our earnings. We purchase a significant amount of goods from Procter and Gamble and several large import vendors and any disruption in that supply and or pricing of such merchandise could negatively impact our operations and results. Delays and costs of operating new stores and distribution facilities could have an adverse impact on our business. We maintain two distribution facilities in our geographic territory, and plan on constructing new facilities as needed to support our growth. One of our key business strategies is to expand our base of retail stores. We plan on expanding and refreshing our network of stores through new store openings and remodeling existing stores each year. Delays in opening, refreshing or remodeling stores or delays in opening distribution facilities to service those new stores could adversely affect our future operations by slowing growth, which may in turn reduce revenue and margin growth. Adverse changes in the cost to operate distribution facilities and stores, such as changes in labor, utilities, fuel and transportation, and other operating costs, could have an adverse impact on us. Operational difficulties could disrupt our business. Our stores are managed through a network of geographically dispersed management personnel. Our inability to effectively and efficiently operate our stores, including the ability to control losses resulting from inventory shrinkage, may negatively impact our sales and/or margin. In addition, we rely upon our distribution and logistics network to provide goods to stores in a timely and cost-effective manner; any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process could negatively impact store operations. Our operation depends on a variety of information technology systems for the efficient functioning of its business. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and upgrade these systems as needed. We rely on telecommunications carriers to gather and disseminate our operations information. The disruption or failure of these systems or carriers could negatively impact our operations. Use of a single supplier of pharmaceutical products and our ability to negotiate satisfactory terms could adversely affect our business. We have a long-term supply contract from a single supplier, AmerisourceBergen, for our pharmaceutical operations. Any significant disruption in our relationship with this supplier, deterioration in their financial condition, changes in terms, or an industry-wide change in wholesale business practices, including those of our supplier, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Higher than expected costs and not achieving our targeted results associated with the implementation of new programs, systems and technology could adversely affect our business. We are undertaking a variety of operating initiatives as well as store upgrades and infrastructure initiatives. The failure to properly execute any of these initiatives could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. Changes in state or federal legislation or regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs; trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas and freight rates could adversely affect our business. Unanticipated changes in federal or state wage requirements or other changes in workplace regulation could adversely impact our ability to achieve our financial targets. Changes in trade restrictions, new tariffs and quotas, and higher shipping costs for goods could also adversely impact our ability to achieve anticipated operating results. We depend on the success of our new store opening program for a portion of our growth. Our growth is dependent on both increases in sales in existing stores and the ability to open new stores. Unavailability of store locations that we deem attractive, delays in the acquisition or opening of new stores, difficulties in staffing and operating new store locations and lack of customer acceptance of stores in expanded market areas all may negatively impact our new store growth, the costs associated with new stores and/or the profitability of new stores. Our ability to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms could affect costs of operations or slow store expansions. - 11 - - Changes in our ability to attract and retain employees, and changes in health care and other insurance costs could adversely affect our business. Our growth could be adversely impacted by our inability to attract and retain employees at the store operations level, in distribution facilities, and at the corporate level, including our senior management team. Adverse changes in health care costs could also adversely impact our ability to achieve our operational and financial goals and to offer attractive benefit programs to our employees. Adverse impacts associated with legal proceedings and claims could affect our business. We are a party to a variety of legal proceedings and claims, including those described elsewhere in this Annual Report. Operating results could be adversely impacted if legal proceedings and claims against us are made, requiring the payment of cash in connection with those proceedings or changes to the operation of the business. Our ability to achieve the results of our strategic plan initiatives could adversely affect our business. As part of our continuing operations, we perform research and analysis to discover potential underperforming stores. We use such research and analysis to identify potential store closures. The estimated costs and charges associated with these initiatives may vary materially and adversely based upon various factors, including the timing of execution, the outcome of negotiations with landlords and other third parties, or unexpected costs, any of which could result in our not realizing the anticipated benefits from the strategic plan. Increases in our insurance-related costs could significantly affect our business. The costs of many types of insurance and self-insurance, especially workers’ compensation, employee health care and others, have been increasing in recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes, economic conditions, terrorism and heightened scrutiny of insurance brokers and insurance providers. Our pharmacy departments are also exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, including with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions and adequacy of warnings, and are significantly dependent upon suppliers to provide safe, government-approved and non-counterfeit products. We also sell a variety of products that we purchase from a large number of suppliers, including some who operate in foreign countries, which could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage. While we maintain reasonable quality assurance practices, no program can provide complete assurance that a product liability issue will not arise. Should a product liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs may not be adequate to protect us against future claims. In addition, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Damage to our reputation in the event of a product liability issue could have an adverse affect on our business. If our insurance-related costs increase significantly, or we are unable to renew our insurance policies or protect against all the business risks facing us, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Adverse impacts associated with the current economic and financial crisis could affect our business. The lingering economic downturn could have an adverse impact of our business and profitability. Many consumers have fallen prey to the current crisis either as a result of job losses, foreclosures, or their inability to obtain short-term financing, all of which could negatively affect their ability to shop in our stores and buy our products. Additionally, decreased consumer demand resulting from a pronounced negative consumer sentiment and an increasing personal savings rate could also negatively affect our sales and profits. Also, our ability to obtain financing, should the need arise outside of our current contractual credit facility, could be at risk due to restrictive lending practices in the wake of the liquidity crisis in the United States financial system. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. - 12 - - 