Item 1A. Risk Factors. Employees As of December 28, 2010, we had approximately 15,900 full-time associates (defined as associates who average 25 hours or more per week), of whom approximately 800 were employed in general or administrative functions, principally in our support centers, approximately 1,200 were employed in our fresh dough facility operations, and approximately 13,900 were employed in our bakery-cafe operations as bakers, managers, and associates. We also had approximately 9,700 part-time hourly associates at our bakery-cafes as of December 28, 2010. We do not have any collective bargaining agreements with our associates and we consider our employee relations to be good. We place a priority on staffing our bakery-cafes, fresh dough facilities, and support center operations with skilled associates and invest in training programs to ensure the quality of our operations. Proprietary Rights Our brand, intellectual property, and our confidential and proprietary information are very important to our business and competitive position. We protect these assets through a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret, unfair competition, and contract laws. The Panera®, Panera Bread®, Saint Louis Bread Co.®, Panera Catering®, You Pick Two®, Paradise Bakery®, Paradise Bakery & Café®, the Mother Bread® design, and MyPaneraTM trademarks are some of the trademarks we have registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we have filed to register other trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We have also registered some of our trademarks in a number of foreign countries. Corporate History and Additional Information We are a Delaware corporation. Our principal offices are located at 3630 South Geyer Road, Suite 100, St. Louis, Missouri 63127 and our telephone number is (314) 984-1000. We were originally organized in March 1981 as a Massachusetts corporation under the name Au Bon Pain Co., Inc. and reincorporated in Delaware in June 1988. In December 1993, we purchased Saint Louis Bread Company. In August 1998, we sold our Au Bon Pain Division and changed our name to Panera Bread Company. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act, and, accordingly, we file reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements, and other information are publicly available and can be read and copied at the reference facilities maintained by the SEC at the Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a web site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 8 Table of Contents Our Internet address is www.panerabread.com. We make available at this address, free of charge, nutritional information, press releases, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. In addition, we provide periodic investor relations updates and our corporate governance materials at our Internet address. Government Regulation Our fresh dough facilities and Company-owned and franchise-operated bakery-cafes are subject to regulation and licensing by federal, state and local agencies, and health, sanitation, safety, fire, and other governmental departments. Difficulties or failures in obtaining and retaining the required licensing or approval could result in delays or cancellations in the opening of fresh dough facilities or bakery-cafes as well as fines and possible closure of existing fresh dough facilities or bakery-cafes. In addition, we are subject to federal laws and regulations, such as the Fair Labor Standards Act and various state laws governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime, and other working conditions. We are also subject to federal and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. Such laws impose registration and disclosure requirements on franchisors in the offer and sale of the franchises and may also apply substantive standards to the relationship between franchisor and franchisee. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental regulations. Compliance with applicable environmental regulations is not believed to have a material effect on capital expenditures, consolidated financial condition and results of operations, or our competitive position. The Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination in employment and public accommodations on the basis of disability. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, we could be required to expend funds to modify our Company-owned bakery-cafes to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for the employment of, disabled persons. Compliance with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act is not believed to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including overall economic and industry conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material also may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in our bakery-cafe supply chain could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. Our Company-owned and franchise-operated bakery-cafes depend on frequent deliveries of ingredients and other products. One company delivers the majority of our ingredients and other products to our bakery-cafes two or three times per week. In addition, we supply Company-owned and franchise-operated bakery-cafes with fresh dough and other products on a daily basis. These daily deliveries are particularly susceptible to supply volatility as a result of weather conditions. Our dependence on frequent deliveries to our bakery-cafes could cause shortages or supply interruptions that could adversely impact our operations. Although many of our ingredients and products are prepared to our specifications, we believe that a majority of the ingredients are generally available and could be obtained from alternative sources. In addition, we frequently enter into annual and multi-year contracts for ingredients in order to decrease the risks of supply interruptions and cost fluctuation. Antibiotic-free chicken is sold in most Company-owned and franchise-operated bakery-cafes and we have introduced and tested the sale of other antibiotic-free proteins in our Company-owned and franchise-operated bakery-cafes. Our antibiotic-free chicken is currently supplied to us by three different companies. However, there are few producers of antibiotic-free chicken or other antibiotic-free proteins, which may make it difficult or more costly for us to find alternative suppliers if necessary. 9 Table of Contents Generally, we believe that we have adequate sources of supply for our ingredients and products to support our bakery-cafe operations or, if necessary, we could make menu adjustments to address material supply issues. However, there are many factors which could cause shortages or interruptions in the supply of our ingredients and products, including weather, unanticipated demand, labor, production or distribution problems, quality issues and cost, and the financial health of our suppliers and distributor, some of which are beyond our control, and which could have an adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. In the past, we have been able to recover inflationary cost and commodity price increases for, among other things, fuel, proteins, dairy, produce, wheat, tuna, and cream cheese through increased menu prices. There have been, and there may be in the future, delays in implementing such menu price increases, and economic factors and competitive pressures may limit our ability to recover such cost increases in their entirety. Historically, the effects of inflation on our consolidated results of operations have not been materially adverse. However, increased volatility in certain commodity markets, including those for wheat, produce, or proteins including chicken or turkey could have an adverse effect on us depending upon whether we are able to increase menu prices to cover such increases. Disruptions or supply issues in our fresh dough facilities could adversely affect our business and consolidated results of operations. We operate 22 fresh dough facilities, which service substantially all of our Company-owned and franchise-operated bakery-cafes in the United States and Ontario, Canada. Our fresh dough and other product distribution system delivers fresh dough and other products daily to the bakery-cafes through a leased fleet of temperature controlled vehicles. The optimal maximum distribution range is approximately 300 miles; although, when necessary, the distribution range may reach up to 500 miles. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of or distribution from any of our fresh dough facilities, whether due to weather conditions, technical or labor difficulties, destruction, or damage to the vehicle fleet or facility or other reasons, could cause a shortage of fresh dough and other products at our bakery-cafes. Such a shortage of fresh dough and other products could, depending on the extent and duration, have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. Additionally, while fuel costs remained relatively constant in 2010 and 2009, given the historical volatility of these costs, increased costs and distribution issues related to fuel and utilities could also materially impact our business and consolidated results of operations, including efficiencies in distribution from our fresh dough facilities to our bakery-cafes. Our Franklin, Massachusetts fresh dough facility manufactures and supplies through its distributors all of the cream cheese and tuna used in most of our Company-owned and franchise-operated bakery-cafes in the United States. Although we believe we have adopted adequate quality assurance and other procedures to ensure the production and distribution of quality products and ingredients, we may be subject to allegations regarding quality, health, or other similar concerns that could have a negative impact on our operations, whether or not the allegations are valid or we are liable. Additionally, defending against such claims or litigation could be costly and the results uncertain. Economic conditions in the United States and globally could adversely affect our business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources as well as that of our suppliers. As our business depends upon discretionary consumer spending, our financial results may be impacted by the broader global economic environment. Our customers may make fewer discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and falling home prices. Because a key point in our business strategy is maintaining our transaction count, average check amount and margin growth, any significant decrease in customer traffic or average profit per transaction resulting from fewer purchases from our customers or our customers trading down to lower priced products on our menu will negatively impact our financial performance. Financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers could result in product delays or shortages. An economy that continues to fail to substantially improve could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources including our ability to raise additional capital if needed, the ability of banks to honor draws on our credit facility, or otherwise negatively impact our business and financial results. We may not be able to continue to convince our customers of the benefits of paying our prices for higher-quality food. Our success depends in large part on our continued ability to convince customers that food made with higher-quality ingredients, including antibiotic-free chicken and our artisan breads, is worth the prices at our bakery-cafes relative to lower prices offered by some of our competitors, particularly those in the quick-service segment. Our inability to successfully educate customers about the quality of our food or our customers’ rejection of our pricing approach could require us to change our pricing, marketing, or promotional strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our results or the brand identity that we have tried to create. 10 Table of Contents Customer preferences and traffic could be negatively impacted by health concerns about the consumption of certain products. Customer preferences and traffic could be impacted by health concerns about the consumption of particular food products and could cause a decline in our sales. Negative publicity about ingredients, poor food quality, a production run of items produced in our fresh dough facilities, food-borne illness, injury, health concerns, allergens, or nutritional content could cause customers to shift their preferences. For example, past outbreaks of E. coli in certain beef food products caused consumers to avoid certain products and restaurant chains. In addition, outbreaks of salmonella in certain peanuts and peanut butter products, jalapenos and spinach caused consumers to avoid such products. These problems, other food-borne illnesses (such as hepatitis A or trichinosis), and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause customers to shift their preferences, particularly if we choose to pass any higher ingredient costs along to consumers. Negative publicity concerning particular food products may adversely affect demand for our products and could cause an increase in our food costs as a result of potentially irregular supply of such products and a decrease in customer traffic to our bakery-cafes. Our ability to increase our revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected if we are unable to execute our growth strategy or achieve sufficient returns on invested capital in bakery-cafe locations. Our growth strategy primarily consists of new market development and further penetration of existing markets, both by us and our franchisees, including the selection of sites which will achieve targeted returns on invested capital. The success of this strategy depends on numerous factors that are not completely controlled by us or involve risks that may impact the development, or timing of development, of our bakery-cafes. Our ability to grow the number of bakery-cafes successfully will depend on a number of factors, including: • general economic conditions; • obstacles to hiring and training qualified operating personnel in the local market; • identification and availability of suitable locations for new bakery-cafes on acceptable terms, including costs and appropriate delivery distances from our fresh dough facilities; • competition for restaurant sites; • variations in the number and timing of bakery-cafe openings as compared to our construction schedule; • management of the costs of construction of bakery-cafes, particularly factors outside our control, such as the timing of delivery of a leased location by the landlord; • our ability to take advantage of perceived opportunities in a softening commercial real estate market; • securing required governmental approvals and permits and complying with applicable zoning, land use, and environmental regulations; and • impact of inclement weather, natural disasters, and other acts of nature. Our growth strategy in part depends on continued development by our franchisees. If our franchisees do not continue to successfully finance and open new bakery-cafes, our business could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes continued development of bakery-cafes through franchising. At December 28, 2010, approximately 54.4 percent of our bakery-cafes were operated by franchisees (791 franchise-operated bakery-cafes out of a total of 1,453 bakery-cafes system-wide). The opening and success of bakery-cafes by franchisees depends on a number of factors, including those identified above, as well as the availability of suitable franchise candidates and the financial and other resources of our franchisees such as our franchisees’ ability to receive financing from banks and other financial institutions, which may become more challenging in the current economic environment. 11 Table of Contents Additionally, our consolidated results of operations include revenues derived from royalties on sales from, and revenues from sales by our fresh dough facilities to, franchise-operated bakery-cafes. As a result, our growth expectations and revenues could be negatively impacted by a material downturn in sales at and to franchise-operated bakery-cafes or if one or more key franchisees becomes insolvent and unable to pay us royalties. Although we have been able to successfully manage our growth to date, we may experience difficulties doing so in the future. Our growth strategy includes opening bakery-cafes in new markets where we may have little or no operating experience. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that a bakery-cafe opened in a new market will have similar operating results, including average weekly net sales, as our existing bakery-cafes. Bakery-cafes opened in new markets may not perform as expected or may take longer to reach planned operating levels, if at all. Operating results or overall bakery-cafe performance could vary as a result of higher construction, occupancy, or general operating costs, a lack of familiarity with our brand which may require us to build local brand awareness, differing demographics, consumer tastes, and spending patterns, and variable competitive environments. Additional expenses attributable to costs of delivery from our fresh dough facilities may exceed our expectations in areas not currently served by those facilities. Our growth strategy also includes opening bakery-cafes in existing markets to increase the penetration rate of our bakery-cafes in those markets. There can be no assurance we will be successful in operating bakery-cafes profitably in new markets or further penetrating existing markets. We may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Our business depends upon our ability to continue to grow and evolve through various important strategic initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement these important strategic initiatives, which could in turn adversely affect our business. These strategic initiatives include: • introducing desirable new menu items and improving existing items consistent with customer tastes and expectations; • balancing unit growth while meeting target returns on invested capital for locations; • increasing same store sales and gross profit per transaction through investments in areas such as category management, catering, and technology in an effort to increase overall traffic and transaction count; and • increasing brand awareness through greater investment in multi-channel marketing and advertising, including our MyPanera loyalty program. Our failure or inability to protect our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our business and competitive position. We believe that our intellectual property and confidential and proprietary information is very important to our business and competitive position. Our primary trademarks, Panera®, Panera Bread®, Saint Louis Bread Co.®, Panera Catering®, You Pick Two®, Paradise Bakery®, Paradise Bakery & Café®, the Mother Bread® design, and MyPaneraTM along with other trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, confidential and proprietary information, and other intellectual property rights, are key components of our operating and marketing strategies. Although we have taken steps to protect our brand, intellectual property, and confidential and proprietary information, these steps may not be adequate. Unauthorized usage or imitation by others could harm our image, brand, or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees. 12 Table of Contents We are not aware of any assertions that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, but third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in marketing or introducing new menu items in the future, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We try to ensure that our franchisees maintain and protect our brand and our confidential and proprietary information. However, since our franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, if they do not operate their bakery-cafes in a manner consistent with their agreements with us, our brand and reputation or the value of our confidential and proprietary information could be harmed. If this occurs, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Damage to our brands or reputation could negatively impact our business. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our reputation for offering a memorable experience with superior customer service. Our brands have been highly rated in annual consumer studies and have received high recognition in several industry publications. We believe that we must protect and grow the value of our brands through our Concept Essence to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and continue our success. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their value. If consumers do not continue to perceive us as a company that customers can trust to serve high quality food in a warm, friendly, comfortable environment, our brand value could suffer, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Competition may adversely affect our operations and consolidated results of operations. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to location, customer service, price, taste, quality of products, and overall customer experience. We compete with specialty food, casual dining, and quick-service restaurant retailers, including national, regional, and locally owned restaurants. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing, marketing, and the restaurant industry better than we can. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants that operate with concepts similar to ours. We also compete with other restaurant chains and other retail businesses for quality site locations and hourly employees. If we are unable to successfully compete in our markets, we may be unable to sustain or increase our revenues and profitability. Additionally, competition could cause us to modify or evolve our products, designs, or strategies. If we do so, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in implementing the changes or that our profitability will not be negatively impacted. Loss of senior management or the inability to recruit and retain associates could adversely affect our future success. Our success depends on the services of our senior management and associates, all of whom are “at will” employees. The loss of a member of senior management could have an adverse impact on our business or the financial market’s perception of our ability to continue to grow. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to hire, train, motivate, and retain qualified associates in our bakery-cafes, fresh dough facilities, and support centers. Our failure to do so could result in higher associate turnover and increased labor costs, and could compromise the quality of our service, all of which could adversely affect our business. We operate in Canada and therefore, we may be exposed to uncertainties and risks that could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations. We recently expanded our operations into Canadian markets. Our expansion into Canada has made us subject to Canadian economic conditions, particularly currency exchange rate fluctuations, increased regulations, quotas, tariffs, and political factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations if our Canadian operations continue to expand. Further, we may be exposed to new forms of competition not present in our domestic markets, as well as subject to potentially different demographic tastes and preferences for our products. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with governmental laws or regulations or if these laws or regulations change, our business could suffer. In connection with the operation of our business, we are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to: • franchise relationships; • building construction and zoning requirements; • nutritional content labeling and disclosure requirements; • management and protection of the personal data of our employees and customers; and • environmental matters. Our bakery-cafes and fresh dough facilities are licensed and subject to regulation under federal, state, and local laws, including business, health, fire, and safety codes. Various federal, state, and local labor laws govern our operations and our relationship with our associates, including prevailing wages, overtime, accommodation and working conditions, benefits, citizenship requirements, insurance matters, workers’ compensation, disability laws such as the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act, child labor laws, and anti-discrimination laws. While we believe we operate in substantial compliance with these laws, they are complex and vary from location to location, which complicates monitoring and compliance. As a result, regulatory risks are inherent in our operation. Although we believe that compliance with these laws has not had a material effect on our operations to date, we may experience material difficulties or failures with respect to compliance in the future. Our failure to comply with these laws could result in required renovations to our facilities, litigation, fines, penalties, judgments, or other sanctions including the temporary suspension of bakery-cafe or fresh dough facility operations or a delay in construction or opening of a bakery-cafe, any of which could adversely affect our business, operations and our reputation. Regulatory changes in and customer focus on nutrition and advertising practices could adversely affect our business. In recent years, there has been increased consumer emphasis on and regulatory scrutiny of restaurants operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments, with respect to nutrition and advertising practices. While we have taken steps to respond to these developments by updating our menu boards and printed menus to include caloric information in all of our Company-owned bakery-cafes, we may become subject to other initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising which would require us to make certain additional nutritional information available to guests or restrict the sales of certain types of ingredients. We may experience higher costs associated with the implementation and oversight of such changes that could have an adverse impact on our business. Rising insurance costs could negatively impact our profitability. We self-insure a significant portion of potential losses under our workers’ compensation, medical, general, auto, and property liability programs. The liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by us are estimated, in part, by considering our historical claims experience and data from industry and other actuarial sources. The estimated accruals for these liabilities could be affected if claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves of these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the costs of insurance and medical care have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase. These increases, as well as existing or potential legislation changes, such as the recently enacted legislation, which requires employers to provide health insurance to employees, could negatively impact our operating results. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to complaints and litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business. In the ordinary course of our business we may become subject to complaints and litigation alleging that we are responsible for a customer illness or injury suffered at or after a visit to one of our bakery-cafes or to one of our franchise-operated bakery-cafes, including allegations of poor food quality, food-borne illness, adverse health effects, nutritional content, advertising claims, allergens, personal injury, or other concerns. In addition, we are subject to litigation by employees, investors, franchisees, and others through private actions, class actions or other forums. For example, in January 2008, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against us and three of our current or former executive officers by investors alleging violations of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder. While we believe we have meritorious defenses to each of the claims in this lawsuit and we are vigorously defending the lawsuit, the outcome of litigation is difficult to assess and quantify and the defense against such claims or actions can be costly. In addition to decreasing sales and profitability and diverting financial and management resources, we may suffer from adverse publicity that could harm our brand, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. Moreover, we are subject to the same risks of adverse publicity resulting from allegations even if the claim involves one of our franchisees. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, publicity about these claims may harm our reputation or prospects and adversely affect our results. If we are unable to protect our customers’ credit card data, we could be exposed to data loss, litigation, and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed. In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information by way of secure private retail networks. Although we use private networks, third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of the customer information transmitted in connection with credit card sales, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent these security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, and liability, and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. We periodically acquire existing bakery-cafes from our franchisees or ownership interests in other restaurant or bakery-cafe concepts, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We have historically acquired existing bakery-cafes and development rights from our franchisees either by negotiated agreement or exercise of our rights of first refusal under the franchise and area development agreements. Any acquisition that we undertake involves risk, including: • our ability to successfully achieve anticipated synergies, accurately assess contingent and other liabilities as well as potential profitability; • failure to successfully integrate the acquired entity’s operational and support activities; • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions; • limited or no operational experience in the acquired bakery-cafe market; • future impairment charges related to goodwill and other acquired intangible assets; and • risks of dispute and litigation with the seller, the seller’s landlords, and vendors and other parties. Any of these factors could strain our financial and management resources as well as negatively impact our consolidated results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results fluctuate due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, and any of which may adversely affect our financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from our forecasts, targets, or projections because of a number of factors, including the following: • changes in average weekly net sales and comparable net bakery-cafe sales due to: • lower customer traffic or average check per transaction, including as a result of the introduction or removal of new menu items; menu items; • changes in demographics, consumer preferences, and discretionary spending; • negative publicity about the ingredients we use or the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or other problems at our bakery-cafes; • negative publicity about the ingredients we use or the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or other problems at our bakery-cafes; and • seasonality, including as a result of inclement weather. • cost increases due to: • changes in our operating costs; • labor availability and increased labor costs, including wages of management and associates, compensation, insurance, and health care; and • changes in business strategy including concept evolution and new designs. • profitability of new bakery-cafes, especially in new markets; • delays in new bakery-cafe openings; • fluctuations in supply costs, shortages, or interruptions; and • natural disasters and other calamities. Increased advertising and marketing costs could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We expect our advertising expenses to continue to increase and to dedicate greater resources to advertising and marketing than in previous years. If new advertising and other marketing programs, including our MyPanera loyalty program, do not drive increased net bakery-cafe sales or if the costs of advertising, media, or marketing increase greater than expected, our consolidated financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our federal, state, and local tax returns have been and may in the future be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We are subject to federal, state, and local taxes in the United States and Canada including sales, use, and other applicable taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the Internal Revenue Service or another taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. A regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. A health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic occurs, depending upon its duration, location, and severity, our business could be severely affected. Generally, we are viewed by our customers as an “everyday oasis”, a friendly, all day destination where people can gather with friends and business colleagues. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional, or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of ingredients and products in our supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our bakery-cafes. The impact of a health pandemic might be disproportionately greater on us than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people for the sale of their products. 16 Table of Contents Regional factors could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations. There are several states in which we, our franchisees, or both own and operate a significant number of bakery-cafes. As a result, the economic conditions, state and local laws, government regulations, and weather conditions affecting those particular states, or a geographic region generally, may have a material impact upon our consolidated results of operations. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely adversely affect the market price of our stock. The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of financial performance. Should we fail to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to comparable net bakery-cafe sales revenues, operating margins, and diluted earnings per share, the market price of our stock will likely decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 