Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risk and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We have had a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future While we have had a net profit in some fiscal quarters, we have had a history of losses and cannot assure that we will be profitable in the future. Even if we are able to generate profit in the future, we still many not be able to maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to meet certain financial covenants in our credit facility, our lender could accelerate the debt While we currently have no borrowings under our current credit agreement, the facility does contain financial covenants with respect to consolidated tangible net worth, as well as other financial ratios. If in the future we borrow monies under the facility and fail to meet these covenants or obtain appropriate waivers, our lender may terminate the credit facility or accelerate our debt. Our sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and fashion trends Our sales and operating results depend in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our products will correspond to the changes in taste and demand or that we will be able to successfully market products that respond to such trends. This requires us to anticipate and respond to numerous and fluctuating variables in fashion trends and other conditions in the markets in which our stores are situated. A variety of factors will affect our ability to maintain the proper mix of products in each store, including without limitation, variations in local economic conditions, which could affect our customers’ discretionary spending, unanticipated fashion trends, our success in distributing merchandise to our stores in an efficient manner and changes in weather patterns, which in turn affect consumer preferences. If we misjudge the market for our products, or if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of each region, we may experience decreases in our net sales due to significant excess inventories for some products and may be forced to increase markdowns in relation to slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 3 We may be unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive markets The retail apparel business is highly competitive, and we only account for a small fraction of the total market for men’s, women’s and children’s apparel. We compete against discount stores, apparel specialty stores, department stores, manufacturer-owned factory outlet stores and others. Our success depends on our ability to remain competitive with respect to style, price, brand availability and customer service. The performance of our competitors, as well as changes in their pricing policies, marketing activities and other business strategies, could have and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our market share. If we are unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, our revenue growth may decline Twelve of our 34 stores are located in leased premises and the leases for five of these 12 stores expire by 2009 and are subject to renewal. If the cost of leasing existing stores increases, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, we may not be able to enter into new leases on favorable terms or at all, or we may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional new sites for new stores in a timely manner. Our revenues and earnings may decline if we fail to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, locate alternative sites or find additional sites for new stores. Our results of operations depend on keeping our expenses at an appropriate level Our performance depends on appropriate management of our expense structure, including our selling, general and administrative costs. If we fail to meet our expense budget or to appropriately reduce expenses during a weak sales season, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our relationships with vendors We currently purchase first-quality, in-season designer and brand name merchandise from more than 200 vendors at prices below those generally available to major department and specialty stores. Although we have maintained long-term business relationship with many of these vendors, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to purchase first-quality, in-season merchandise from these vendors in the same breadth of styles and sizes, in the same or greater volumes and at prices as favorable as those currently available to us. If we fail to strengthen our relations with our existing vendors, or to enhance the quality of merchandise they supply us, and if we cannot maintain or acquire new vendors of in-season brand name and designer merchandise, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise at favorable prices may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. Inventory Management The fashion-oriented nature of the our products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Our ability to manage inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inherent in our calculations are certain significant management judgments and estimates, including, among others, merchandise markon, markups, and markdowns, which significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost as well as resulting gross margins. While management believes that these methods provide an inventory valuation which reasonably approximates cost, if market conditions are less favorable than those projected, additional markdowns may be required. Our inability of to effectively manage inventory would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to retain our existing senior management and to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business Our success will depend on our ability to retain our key personnel and attract and retain talented, highly qualified executives. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of any of our key executive and buying personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. We are also subject to risks associated with any significant disruptions in our relationship with our employees, including union employees, and any work stoppages by our employees, including union employees. 4 A decline in general economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our merchandise Consumer spending habits, including spending for merchandise, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salary and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A decline in general economic conditions could lead to a reduced consumer demand for our merchandise, however, because of our discount pricing policies, a decline in general economic conditions may result in decreased sales. We are subject to potential for uninsured losses and/or claims We are subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquakes or floods, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. We are also subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims. Other factors could affect our results of operations and our ability to grow Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted and that may adversely affect our ability to grow include: possible disruptions in our computer or telephone systems, increases in labor costs, higher than anticipated store closings or relocation costs, higher interest rates and unanticipated increase in merchandise or occupancy costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 5 