Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risk and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We have had a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future We have had a net profit in some fiscal quarters and net losses in other fiscal quarters. We have also had a history of both profits and losses in recent fiscal years and cannot assure that we will be profitable in the future. Even if we are able to generate profits in the future, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The recent deterioration in general economic conditions and the impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending could materially and adversely impact our results of operations in future periods. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our merchandise, are affected by, among other things, prevailing market conditions, levels of employment, salary and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of general economic conditions. Recently, as a result of the significant deterioration in economic conditions worldwide, consumer confidence and consumer spending have been negatively impacted and could remain depressed for an extended period of time. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, can be expected to decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. We may be unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive markets The retail apparel business is highly competitive and we only account for a small fraction of the total market for men’s, women’s and children’s apparel. We compete against discount stores, specialty apparel stores, department stores, manufacturer-owned factory outlet stores and others. Our success depends on our ability to remain competitive with respect to style, price, brand availability and customer service. The performance of our competitors, as well as changes in their pricing policies, marketing activities and other business strategies, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our market share. If we are unable to meet certain financial covenants in our credit facility, our ability to borrow could be constrained While we currently have no borrowings under our existing credit agreement, the facility does contain financial covenants with respect to consolidated tangible net worth, as well as other financial ratios. If in the future we borrow monies under the facility and fail to meet these covenants or obtain appropriate waivers, our lender may terminate the credit facility or accelerate any then-existing debt. Our sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and fashion trends Our sales and operating results depend in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that the merchandise on hand or on order will correspond to changes in taste and demand or that we will be able to successfully secure and market merchandise that is responsive to such trends. Consumer demand requires us to anticipate and respond to numerous and fluctuating variables in fashion trends and other conditions in the markets in which our stores are situated. A variety of factors may affect our ability to maintain the proper mix of products in each store, including without limitation: variations in local, regional or national economic conditions which could affect our customers’ discretionary 3 spending, unanticipated fashion trends, our success in distributing merchandise to our stores in an efficient manner and changes in weather patterns, which in turn may affect consumer demand and preferences. If we misjudge the market for our products, or if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of each region, we may experience decreases in our sales, realize significant excess inventories for some products and we may be forced to increase markdowns in relation to slow-moving merchandise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, our revenue growth may decline Eleven of our 32 stores are located in leased premises and the leases for nine of these eleven stores expire by 2010 and are subject to extension or renewal. If the cost of leasing existing stores increases, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, we may not be able to enter into new leases on favorable terms or at all, or we may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional new sites for new stores in a timely manner. Our revenues and earnings may decline if we fail to maintain existing store locations, enter into more costly new leases, locate alternative sites on more expensive terms or fail to find suitable additional sites for new stores. Our results of operations depend on keeping our expenses at an appropriate level Our performance depends on appropriate management of our expense structure, including our selling, general and administrative costs. If we fail to meet our expense goals or appropriately reduce expenses during a weak sales season or period, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our relationships with vendors can change We currently purchase first-quality, in-season designer and brand name merchandise from more than 200 vendors at prices believed to be below those generally available to major department and specialty stores. Although we have maintained long-term business relationships with many of these vendors, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to purchase first-quality, in-season merchandise from these vendors in the same breadth of styles and sizes, in the same or greater volumes and at prices as favorable as those currently available to us. If we fail to maintain our relations with our existing vendors, or to enhance the quality of merchandise they supply us or if we cannot maintain existing sources of supply or attract new vendors of in-season brand name and designer merchandise, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise at favorable prices may be limited, which could have a significant negative impact on our competitive position and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to manage inventory can affect our business The fashion-oriented nature of our products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Our ability to manage inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inherent in our management and valuation of inventories are certain significant judgments and estimates, including, among others, initial merchandise markup and subsequent markups and markdowns which significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at retail as well as the resulting cost complement. While management believes that these methods provide an inventory valuation which reasonably approximates cost, if market conditions are less favorable than those projected, additional markdowns may be required. Our inability to effectively manage inventory could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to retain our existing senior management and to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business Our success will depend on our ability to retain our key personnel and attract and retain talented, highly qualified executives. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of any of our key executive and buying personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. We are also subject to risks associated with any significant disruptions in our relationship with our employees, including union employees and any work stoppages by our employees, including union employees. We are subject to potential uninsured losses and/or claims We are subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquakes or floods, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. We are also subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims. 4 We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Business disruptions, protracted economic weakness, declines in operating results and other factors may result in asset impairments. During the annual impairment testing for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2009, the carrying amount of certain real estate holdings exceeded the implied fair values and as a result the Company recognized an impairment charge of $530,000. In fiscal 2007 we recorded an impairment charge of $745,000. In light of current economic conditions, additional impairments could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the current impairment analysis. Future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in governmental regulation could adversely affect our operations Laws and regulations at both state and federal levels frequently change and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from the changes in governmental regulation under different political administrations. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of new legislation that impacts employment, labor, trade, transportation or logistics, health care, tax or environmental issues could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. A privacy breach could adversely affect or business The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirement. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation, result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits or have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Other factors could affect our results of operations and our ability to grow Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted and that may adversely affect our ability to grow include: possible disruptions in our computer or telephone systems, increases in labor costs, higher than anticipated store closings or relocation costs, increases in energy costs, higher interest rates, potential disruptions in the supply of or restrictions on imported merchandise and unanticipated increases in merchandise or occupancy costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 5 