Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks materialize, the financial condition and cash flows of the Company could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to monetize its assets in an amount that will be sufficient to satisfy its near term obligations to creditors under the Plan. If the Syms and Filene's convenience class claims and the Syms general unsecured claims (as described in the Plan) are not paid in full under the Plan by October 1, 2013, then the director designated by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to direct the sale process for any “near term properties” that remain unsold pursuant to a commercially reasonable process consistent with maximizing the value of those properties. The Company may not have sufficient cash generated from the monetization of its properties in the next four months to satisfy 100% of the Syms and Filene's convenience class claims and Syms general unsecured claims. It is unclear how the director referred to above would exercise his right to direct the sales or what effect that may have on the sale of the “near term properties”. The Company may seek to raise money through the sale of common equity, or the sale of other properties or assets, but it may decide to not raise money for the purpose of paying claims by October 1, 2013 and, in any event, such money may or may not be available on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that the Company's reserves for operating expenses will be sufficient. As part of the Plan, the Company established a reserve of $5 million for overhead expenses to be incurred in the first two years following the effectiveness of the Plan. The Company’s overhead expenses have exceeded the original expectations, and at its current level of expenditures, the Company is likely to exhaust the overhead reserve in July 2013 or August 2013, absent an alternative arrangement or the consent described below. The Plan similarly established reserves for other operating expenses in the first two years following the effectiveness of the Plan, including one for general carrying costs and tenant improvements and one specifically for the Trinity Place Property, and there can be no assurance that those reserves will be sufficient. The Company is currently pursuing various alternatives within the parameters of the Plan, including, obtaining the consent of the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock to increase these reserves, which consent it has not yet received. The Company may also seek to raise money through the sale of common equity or by seeking other forms of capital. There can be no assurance that any such alternatives would be available to the Company on acceptable terms or that such consent will be obtained. Proceeds from the monetization of the Company’s assets, after the payment of budgeted costs and transaction expenses, must be used to pay the Company’s obligations under the Plan. Under the Plan, any proceeds generated from the monetization of the Company’s assets are first used to pay transaction expenses and to fund the Company’s operating budget. All net proceeds must then be used to satisfy creditor claims under the Plan and the Majority Shareholder redemption payment. As of May 24, 2013, based on the reconciliation work to date, the Company believes that the estimated aggregate allowed amount of creditor claims, together with the net amount due to the former Majority Shareholder, is between $103 million and $123 million. In addition, because Filene’s long-term allowed claims are only entitled to a 75% recovery, the estimated aggregate amount of distributions to creditors and the former Majority Shareholder under the Plan is between $94 million and $113 million. Only if there are proceeds remaining after the satisfaction of such obligations can they be used in the business of the Company or distributed to stockholders. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to monetize its assets in an amount that will be sufficient to satisfy its obligations under the Plan or that would result in distributable proceeds. 4 If certain of the Company’s obligations are not satisfied by specific dates, the Plan and the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation provide for certain shifts in control. If the Company is unable to satisfy all of its general unsecured claims by October 1, 2016, then the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation provides for the Board of Directors to automatically increase to nine members, seven of which are to be elected by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock. Also, if the general unsecured claims have been satisfied but the required payment to the Majority Shareholder has not been made by October 16, 2016, then the Board of Directors shall automatically be adjusted to have four members, three of whom are to be elected by the Majority Shareholder. In each case, the Board of Directors shall remain controlled by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Majority Shareholder, as applicable, until the required payments are made. In addition, as described above, if the Syms and Filene’s convenience class claims and the Syms general unsecured claims (as described in the Plan) are not paid in full under the Plan by October 1, 2013, then the director designated by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to direct the sale process for any “near term properties” that remain unsold pursuant to a commercially reasonable process consistent with maximizing the value of those properties. It is unclear how the director referred to above would exercise his right to direct the sales or what effect that may have on the sale of the “near term properties”. Similarly, if the Filene’s general unsecured claims (as described in the Plan) are not paid in full under the Plan by October 1, 2014, then, absent approval of a six-month extension under the circumstances described in the Plan, the director designated by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to direct the sale process for any “medium term properties” and “near term properties” that remain unsold pursuant to a commercially reasonable process consistent with maximizing the value of those properties. Capital market, regional and general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the Company’s real estate portfolio. The value of the real estate owned by the Company may be affected by volatility and illiquidity in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or real estate industry as a whole. For instance, as a result of the economic downturn and global recession that began in the second half of 2007, demand for retail space such as that owned by the Company declined nationwide due to industry slowdowns, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. Real estate transactions and development opportunities lessened compared to the period prior to the economic downturn. Depending on economic conditions, it may be difficult to sell any particular parcel of real estate owned by the Company, and it may be difficult to lease space, collect rent, and attract new tenants. The real estate owned by the Company is located predominately in the New York City metropolitan area, as well as in Florida, Georgia and Illinois. A downturn in the economies of any these local markets could reduce demand for retail space even in the event of a general market upswing. Because the Company’s portfolio consists primarily of retail space (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio), a decrease in demand for retail space in turn could adversely affect the value of the real estate owned by the Company. It may be difficult to sell real estate quickly and there are certain transfer and other restrictions applicable to some of the Company’s properties. The ability to sell properties is subject to a number of issues and conditions, including delivery of marketable title, satisfactory environmental reports and purchasers’ reviews of the physical condition of the properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and as a result, the Company’s ability to sell one or more parcels of its real estate may be limited. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to dispose of any particular parcel of its real estate within a stated time period or for a stated price. In addition, significant carrying costs are associated with each parcel of real property, including insurance, real estate taxes and maintenance costs. While most of the Company’s properties are predominantly vacant, the Company may be unable to lease, renew leases or relet space as current or future leases expire. The value of certain real estate owned by the Company will depend in part on whether the properties are leased up with long term credit worthy tenants. Therefore, if current tenants decide not to renew their leases when such leases expire, the Company or the buyers of the parcels may have difficulty finding replacement tenants for those leases. Moreover, even if existing tenants renew their leases or the Company can relet the space, it may not be able to retain favorable economic terms because of, among other factors, the cost of required renovations for any particular property. If the Company is unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates, the value of the affected real property could be adversely affected and it could become more difficult to sell. A portion of the Company’s income is from rent, and there is a risk that the tenants may not be able to pay their rents or that they may otherwise default under the terms of their leases. The single largest lease to the Company is the lease to The Sports Authority located at the former Syms store in Elmsford, NY, which the tenant is currently refurbishing and preparing for an opening later in 2013. While there is no specific risk that the Company is aware of at this time, anything that causes a disruption of the rent with respect to this lease, or a description with respect to the business or credit quality of The Sports Authority, would likely be material to the Company and the potential sale of the Elmsford property. In addition, if The Sports Authority or another tenant does not pay its rent, the Company may incur costs to enforce its rights as landlord. During economic downturns in the economy, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and a corresponding increase in vacancy rates. 5 Selling real estate is a competitive business. Much of the real estate owned by the Company is located in markets where there are other similar parcels for sale, meaning that buyers often have a number of alternatives, and this can depress sale prices or prolong the time it may take to achieve a sale. Also, the value of the real estate owned by the Company depends upon, among other factors, trends in the national, regional and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of potential buyers, current and prospective tenants and customers, the availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends. The ability to sell and the price of any individual property is also dependent on the state of title, the physical condition of the property (including the state of the roof and the heating, cooling and ventilation systems), available parking and environmental conditions, among other factors. Contracts of sale are often subject to due diligence periods in which the prospective purchaser is permitted to review and raise objections to various physical and legal conditions while the property is under contract and is no longer being marketed. As described above, the Trinity Place Property is subject to a myriad of competitive and uncertain market conditions that may affect its value. In addition, its physical condition has not been fully investigated and may require significant expenditures. The Company is currently restoring a full exterior wall on one of the component buildings of this property. The majority of the value in the Company’s real estate holdings are concentrated in just a few parcels. Although the Company owns 13 parcels as of May 24, 2013, a significant majority of the anticipated value of those properties is concentrated in just five properties, including the Trinity Place Property in Lower Manhattan and properties in Secaucus, NJ, Elmsford, NY, Paramus, NJ, and Westbury, NY. The Company may be required to incur costs in order to comply with various environmental laws. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopment projects that a potential purchaser would want to undertake with respect to any particular parcel of real estate owned by the Company. Such laws, ordinances and regulations also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership and management of certain properties, the Company could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or related claims. The Company is subject to risks associated with natural or other disasters. A number of the parcels comprising the real estate owned by the Company are located in areas which could be subject to natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, severe tropical storms and tornados. For example, the Trinity Place Property sustained damage in connection with Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, only a portion of which may be recoverable through insurance; however, the amount of the uninsured loss is not expected to have a material effect on the Company. The Company is subject to potential uninsured losses and/or claims. The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all properties, which it believes will be adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which may not be covered by insurance. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, such loss could have a negative impact on the Company and/or the anticipated future revenue from any particular parcel of real estate owned by the Company. Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Terrorist activities or violence also could affect the value of the Company’s properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower or cost more, which could increase the Company’s operating expenses. Terrorist activities and other acts of violence could also indirectly affect the Company’s financial condition because of the impact they can have on the economy generally. The Company may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. The Company’s properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws, including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. These laws may require significant property modifications in the future. Noncompliance with these laws could result in fines being levied against the Company. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, (the “ADA”), all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to the Company’s properties, or restrict the Company’s ability to renovate its properties. If one or more of the Company’s properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then the Company may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ADA or similar state or local laws. 6 Changes in governmental regulation could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Laws and regulations at the local, state and federal levels frequently change and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from the changes in governmental regulation under different political administrations. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of new legislation that impacts employment, labor, trade, transportation or logistics, health care, tax or environmental issues, among others, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. The legal status of the CEO’s engagement agreement remains in question. Lauren Krueger served as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer from September 14, 2012 until the effective date of her resignation on January 11, 2013. The Board of Directors then elected Mark D. Ettenger as Chairman, and in such capacity he served as the Company’s principal executive officer from January 12, 2013 until April 21, 2013. On April 22, 2013, the Company and Mr. Ettenger executed an engagement agreement for his CEO services, and his title became Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. As disclosed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 26, 2013 and discussed below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” Alan Cohen, the Company director appointed by the holder of the Series A Preferred Stock, has informed the Company of his belief that under the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and the Plan, his approval is required in order for the Company to enter into and/or perform its obligations under the CEO engagement agreement between the Company and Mr. Ettenger. Mr. Cohen has not approved the engagement agreement and has indicated that he does not intend to approve it in its current form. The Company, Mr. Cohen and Mr. Ettenger are engaged in discussions attempting to resolve the issue, but there can be no assurance as to the outcome of those discussions. If the matter is not resolved, it could result in the Company not having a principal executive officer and/or in the need for legal proceedings, which could cause further distraction and negatively affect the Company’s business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 