Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risk and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We have incurred losses in recent fiscal periods and may not be profitable in the short-term We have experienced losses in recent fiscal periods and cannot guarantee that we will return to profitability in the short-term. Deterioration in general economic conditions and the impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending could continue to materially and adversely impact our results of operations in future periods. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our merchandise, are affected by, among other things, prevailing market conditions, levels of employment, salary and wage rates, declines in discretionary income and actual and perceived wealth, gasoline and energy costs, prevailing interest rates, income tax rates and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of general economic conditions. As a result of the prolonged deterioration in economic conditions worldwide over the past few years, consumer confidence and consumer spending have been negatively impacted and while economic conditions are showing signs of improvement, it is unclear whether any such improvements will continue or how significant the improvements will be. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, can be expected to decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. We have been affected by these general economic conditions in the latest fiscal year and expect these conditions to affect our current and future fiscal periods. We may be unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive markets The retail business is highly competitive and we account for only a small fraction of the total market for men’s, women’s and children’s apparel. We compete against discount stores, specialty apparel stores, department stores, manufacturer-owned factory outlet stores and others. Our success depends on our ability to remain competitive with respect to style, price, brand availability and customer service. The performance of our competitors, as well as changes in their pricing policies, marketing activities and other business strategies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our market share. If we are unable to meet certain financial covenants in our credit facility, our ability to borrow could be constrained We had $30.2 million in borrowings as of the end of the current fiscal year under our existing credit agreement. The facility contains various covenants. While we are in compliance with these covenants and monitor such compliance, if in the future we continue to borrow monies under the facility and fail to meet these covenants or obtain appropriate waivers, our lender may terminate the credit facility or accelerate any then-existing debt. Our sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and fashion trends Our sales and operating results depend in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that the merchandise on hand or on order will correspond to changes in taste and demand or that we will be able to successfully secure and market merchandise that is responsive to such trends. Consumer demand requires us to anticipate and respond to numerous and fluctuating variables in fashion trends and other conditions in the markets in which our stores are situated. A variety of factors may affect our ability to maintain the proper mix of products in each store, including without limitation: variations in local, regional or national economic conditions which could affect our customers’ discretionary spending, unanticipated fashion trends, our success in distributing merchandise to our stores in an efficient manner and changes in weather patterns, which in turn may affect consumer demand and preferences. If we misjudge the market for our products, or if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of each region, we may experience decreases in our sales, we may realize significant excess inventories for some products and we may be forced to increase markdowns in relation to slow-moving merchandise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 If we are unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, our revenue growth may decline We operate 31 of our locations in leased premises. The leases for eight of these 31 locations expire during 2011 through 2013 and several are subject to extension or renewal, in the Company’s discretion. If the cost of leasing existing stores increases, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, we may not be able to enter into new leases on favorable terms or at all, or we may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional new sites for new stores in a timely manner. Our revenues and earnings may decline if we fail to maintain existing store locations, enter into more costly new leases, locate alternative sites on more expensive terms or fail to find suitable additional sites for new stores. Our relationships with vendors can change We currently purchase first-quality, in-season designer and brand name merchandise from more than 900 vendors at prices we believe to be below those generally available to major department and specialty stores. Although we have maintained long-term business relationships with many of these vendors, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to purchase first-quality, in-season merchandise from these vendors in the same breadth of styles and sizes, in the same or greater volumes and at prices as favorable as those currently available to us. If we fail to maintain our relations with our existing vendors, or to enhance the quality of merchandise they supply us or if we cannot maintain existing sources of supply or attract new vendors of in-season brand name and designer merchandise, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise at favorable prices may be limited, which could have a significant negative impact on our competitive position and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if we are unable to maintain or continue to obtain trade credit from factors, vendors and service providers on favorable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our merchandise or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, the tightening of trade credit could limit our available liquidity. Our ability to manage inventory can affect our business The fashion-oriented nature of our products and the rapid changes in customer preferences leave us vulnerable to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Our ability to manage inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inherent in our management and valuation of inventories are certain significant judgments and estimates, including, among others, initial merchandise markup and subsequent markups and markdowns which significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at retail as well as the resulting cost complement. While management believes that these methods provide an inventory valuation which reasonably approximates cost, if market conditions are less favorable than those projected, additional markdowns may be required. If we are unable to effectively manage inventory, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our results may be adversely affected by increases in the price of raw materials, oil and other commodities Increases in the price of raw materials, oil and other commodities may reduce our overall profitability. Specifically, the cost of fabrics and other materials that are used in the manufacture of merchandise we purchase from our suppliers has recently risen significantly. Such increases are expected to increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely offset our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. Additionally, the price of oil has fluctuated dramatically in the past and recently risen significantly. An increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. Acquisitions involve special risk, including the risk that we may not be able to fully realize the benefits of any such acquisition In 2009, we acquired certain assets of Filene’s Basement, Inc. Realization of the expected return on the Filene’s acquisition, such as the anticipated revenue increases, cost savings and increases in geographic and product presence and customer reach resulting from the acquisition, has been limited thus far due to difficulties integrating the Filene’s assets and operations into our existing infrastructure and operations. In particular, we have experienced difficulties associated with data and platform integration in connection with our acquisition of Filene’s, which have, to date, limited the projected benefits of the acquisition. 6 Our failure to retain our existing senior management and to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business Our success will depend on our ability to retain our key personnel and attract and retain talented, highly qualified executives. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of any of our key executive and buying personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. We are also subject to risks associated with any significant disruptions in our relationship with our employees and any work stoppages by our employees, including union employees. We recorded a $4.3 million impairment charge during fiscal 2010 and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Business disruptions, protracted economic weakness, declines in operating results and other factors may result in asset impairments. For the fiscal year ended February 26, 2011, the carrying amount of certain long-lived assets exceeded their implied fair values and as a result the Company recognized an impairment charge of $4,255,000. In fiscal 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $80,000. In light of current economic conditions, additional impairments could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the current impairment analysis. Future impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to potential uninsured losses and/or claims We are subject to the possibility of uninsured losses from risks such as terrorism, earthquake or floods, for which no, or limited, insurance coverage is maintained. We are also subject to risk of losses which may arise from adverse litigation results or other claims. Changes in governmental regulation could adversely affect our operations Laws and regulations at both state and federal levels frequently change and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from the changes in governmental regulation under different political administrations. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of new legislation that impacts employment, labor, trade, transportation or logistics, health care, tax or environmental issues could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. A privacy breach could adversely affect or business The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation, result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits or have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Damage or interruptions to our information and computer systems or the inability to implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability We rely extensively on various information systems, data centers and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communications systems, to plan and track inventory flow and to generate performance and financial reports. We are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. Our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our associates or contractors. The efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate new technologies systems, controls, data centers and adequate disaster recovery system successfully. For example, in 2011 we plan to upgrade our Allocation system in order to improve our ability to get the right product into the right store at the right time. 7 Other factors could affect our results of operations and our ability to grow Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted and that may adversely affect our ability to grow include: possible disruptions in our computer or telephone systems, increases in labor costs, higher than anticipated store closings or relocation costs, increases in energy costs, higher interest rates, potential disruptions in the supply of or restrictions on imported merchandise and unanticipated increases in merchandise or occupancy costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 