Item 1A. Risk Factors This report and the following discussion of risk factors contain forward-looking statements as discussed in Part 1, Item 2, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks relating to our financial position Our business is highly competitive and subject to a high degree of volatility, and our revenues in any quarter may be insufficient to meet our liquidity and working capital needs. The Company has one major customer whose sales constituted 23% and 24% of full year sales in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Demand for our services from that customer can fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing and size of its marketing campaigns. Demand for our services from other customers is subject to even greater volatility due to the highly competitive nature of our industry. Other unforeseen events can further contribute to such volatility, such as Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, which severely curtailed our operations and those of our customers for an extended period of time. If demand for our services falls significantly in any fiscal quarter, our cash flows and revenues could be insufficient to meet our working capital needs, including the cost of raw materials which are required to support future orders and revenues. Any such shortfall would have a significant negative effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Conversely, an increase in demand for our services in any quarter could result in increased liquidity, which could conceivably reduce the need to raise capital in future quarters where a shortfall occurs; however, our ability to predict such increases is extremely limited. We face severe liquidity constraints and will likely require additional external sources of capital for our debt service obligations and to fund our operations, which may not be available or may not be available on acceptable terms. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $0.5 million of cash and cash equivalents; cash used in operating activities was approximately $1.3 million for 2012. Our revenue declined in each quarterly period in 2012 when compared to the same period in 2011. In our second and third quarters during 2012, we experienced a significant decline in the demand for our services compared to our previous expectations. As a result, we were required to raise additional capital through the issuance of a convertible note to our majority stockholder in August and November 2012. In the absence of a sustained recovery in the demand for our services or a significant decrease in operating expenses, we expect that our cash flows from operating activities may continue to be insufficient for the next twelve months to cover operating expenses and interest payments and we will need other capital resources to fund our debt service and other obligations as they become due. We are exploring other options to improve our liquidity, including equity financings, debt financing and possible additional advances from our primary lender. In addition, we are taking further steps to optimize costs. There can be no assurances that our overall financial performance will improve, that the steps outlined above will be successful in improving our liquidity or that there will not be other unanticipated developments that have a negative impact on our liquidity. If we are not able to address our liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. A default by us in connection with our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness could result in our inability to continue to conduct our business. Under the PNC Agreement we are subject to a number of financial and operating covenants. On October 3, 2012, the Company received a notification from PNC stating that the following events of default have occurred and are continuing under the Agreement: (i) failure to comply with the requirement to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0 for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012; and (ii) incurring indebtedness owing to Saints during August, 2012. The notification stated that PNC had determined not to exercise its option to charge interest at default rate under the Agreement and would continue to make advances in their discretion provided that the foregoing determinations shall not constitute a waiver of any rights related thereto. On December 21, 2012 we entered into that certain Waiver and Amendment No. 3 to Revolving Credit and Security Agreement (the “PNC Amendment”) with PNC Bank, National Association, as a lender and as agent for the lenders (“PNC”). Pursuant to the PNC Amendment, the Company, the Subsidiaries and PNC agreed to amend the PNC Agreement, to waive certain events of default arising from the Company’s failure to comply with the fixed charge coverage ratio set forth in the PNC Facility and the incurrence of debt to Saints Capital Granite, L.P. (“Saints”), to amend the fixed charge coverage ratio and certain other financial covenants in the PNC Facility, and to permit the Company to borrow up to $6 million in subordinated debt from Saints subject to certain conditions. To date, there have been no defaults in our payment obligations under the PNC Agreement. 7 We may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness and may not be able to obtain favorable refinancing terms. We face the risk that our indebtedness will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due, or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of such indebtedness being refinanced. This risk is exacerbated by the current volatility in the capital markets, which has resulted in tightened lending requirements and in some cases the inability to refinance indebtedness. If we were unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, we might be forced to dispose of assets on disadvantageous terms or reduce or suspend operations, any of which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our success depends partly upon the efforts and abilities of our key personnel, including both management (such as our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer) and sales representatives, and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our management team has significant experience in the printing industry and has made important contributions to our growth and success. Although we have been successful in attracting and retaining such people in the past, competition for highly skilled individuals is intense. If we lose productive sales representatives or key managers, as we did in the first part of 2012, it can have an immediate and adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining such individuals in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price may be adversely affected by future issuances of our common stock or other equity securities. As a result of the issuance of convertible notes to our majority stockholder in August 2012, November 2012 and February 2013, once such note becomes convertible after March 31, 2013, any conversion of the notes will result in significant additional dilution to our common stockholders, which is very likely to result in a decrease in our stock price. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interests of other stockholders. Our majority stockholder, Saints, currently owns approximately 69.3% of our outstanding common stock, and all of our outstanding preferred stock, as well as the convertible notes issued in 2012 and 2013. As a result of the issuance of the convertible notes, when such note becomes convertible after March 31, 2013, depending on the final calculation of the conversion price, it is possible that Saints will beneficially own in excess of 90% of our outstanding common stock. While Saints has agreed not to engage in a “going private” transaction, as defined under Rule 13e-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, until after March 31, 2013, and has not expressed any current intention to engage in such a transaction, after such time it is possible that Saints will effect a short-form merger under Delaware law, which may leave our other common stockholders with no remedy other than appraisal rights under Delaware law. For these and other reasons Saints’ interests may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 9 