Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9A. Controls and Procedures PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheets Statements of Income Statement of Shareholders’ Equity Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Financial Statements PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements made in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials filed or to be filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission as well as information included in verbal or written statements made by us constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of the terminology such as may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. To the extent that this Report contains forward-looking statements regarding the financial condition, operating results, business prospects or any other aspect of NVE, you should be aware that our actual financial condition, operating results and business performance may differ materially from that projected or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify, in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual future experience and results to differ from their current expectations. These differences may be caused by a variety of factors, including but not limited to adverse economic conditions, intense competition including entry of new competitors, progress in research and development activities by us and others, variations in costs that are beyond our control, adverse federal, state and local government regulations, unexpected costs, lower sales and net income or higher net losses than forecasted, price increases for equipment, our dependence on significant suppliers, our ability to meet stringent customer technical requirements, our ability to consummate additional license agreements, our ability to continue eligibility for SBIR awards, our inability to raise prices, failure to obtain new customers, the possible fluctuation and volatility of our operating results and financial condition, inability to carry out marketing and sales plans, loss of key executives, and other specific risks that may be alluded to in this Report. For further information regarding our risks and uncertainties, see Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Report. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. In General NVE Corporation, referred to as NVE, we, us, or our, develops and sells devices using spintronics, a nanotechnology we helped pioneer, which utilizes electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information. We are a licensor of spintronic magnetoresistive random access memory technology, commonly known as MRAM, which we believe has the potential to revolutionize electronic memory. We also manufacture high-performance spintronic products including sensors and couplers that are used to acquire and transmit data. NVE History and Background NVE is a Minnesota corporation headquartered in a suburb of Minneapolis. We were founded in 1989 primarily as a government contract research company. Our stock became publicly traded in 2000 in a reverse merger and became NASDAQ listed in 2003. Since our founding, we have been awarded more than $50 million in government research contracts, including more than 30 MRAM development contracts. These contracts have helped us build our intellectual property portfolio. Over the years our product sales have increased and we have reduced our dependence on research contracts. Our Enabling Technology Our designs use one of two nano-scale spintronic structures: giant magnetoresistors or spin-dependent tunnel junctions. Both structures produce a large change in electrical resistance depending on the electron spin orientation in a free layer. In giant magnetoresistance (GMR) devices, resistance changes due to conduction electrons scattering at interfaces within the devices. The GMR effect is only significant if the layer thicknesses are less than the mean free path of conduction electrons, which is approximately five nanometers. Our critical GMR conductor layers are generally less than two nanometers thick. The second type of spintronic structures we use are spin-dependent tunnel junctions, which are also known as SDT junctions, Magnetic Tunnel Junctions (MTJs), or Tunneling Magnetic Junctions (TMJs). SDT junctions use tunnel barriers that are so thin that electrons can “tunnel” through a normally insulating material to cause a resistance change. The SDT barrier thicknesses are in the range of one to two nanometers or approximately five molecules. Technological advances in recent years have made it practical to manufacture such small dimensions. In our products the spintronic elements are connected to integrated circuitry and packaged in much the same way as conventional integrated circuits. Industry Background Much of the electronics industry is devoted to the acquisition, storage and transmission of information. Global trends such as richer data, more video, and remote data collection test the speed and capacity of conventional electronics. 3 We believe spintronics represents the first major change in microelectronic technology since the advent of these devices a generation ago. The 1970s brought microelectronic devices including Hall-effect sensors for data acquisition, semiconductor random access memory (commonly referred to as RAM) for data storage, and light-emitting diode (LED)-based optical couplers for data transmission. There have been incremental improvements to these devices over the years, but the inherent limitations of charge-based electronics remain. We believe spintronics can address these significant markets. Memories are a critical part of almost every electronic device. For some electronic device functions speed is required; others require a large amount of memory; and some require nonvolatility. No single semiconductor memory meets all three of these requirements. For example, a cellphone requires the bit density of DRAM for the operating software, the speed of SRAM for digital signal processing, and the nonvolatility of flash memory for phone books, ring tones, and other permanent storage. The three memories consume power and space. Because they use incompatible materials, the three memories are difficult to combine with each other or with other cellphone circuitry in a single integrated circuit. Near-term potential MRAM applications include mission-critical storage such as military and industrial applications. As its density increases and cost per bit decreases, MRAM could replace semiconductor memories in cellphones, computers, and other electronic devices enabling smaller, faster, and more power-efficient electronics. Our sensors are used to detect small changes in magnetic fields. We believe our spintronic sensors are smaller, more precise, and more reliable than competing devices. They can be used to detect the position or speed of robotics and mechanisms, or to acquire information in medical devices or automobiles. As factories become more automated, there is a need for more precise position sensing. Better sensors could also enable smaller, more reliable medical devices and more efficient automobiles. Like sensors, couplers are widely used in factory automation. Couplers provide reliable digital communication between the various electronic subsystems in factories. For example, couplers are used to send data between robots and central controllers at very high speed. As manufacturing automation expands, there is a need for higher speed data higher channel density. Because of their unique properties, we believe our couplers transmit more data at higher speeds and over longer distances than conventional devices. Our Strategy Our vision is to become the leading developer of practical spintronics technology and devices. We plan to do that by selling products and licensing MRAM technology. Our strategy is to continue to reduce our dependence on government contracts and transition toward product sales and licensing as our principal revenue sources. Grow Product Sales We plan to broaden our sensor and coupler product lines, expand our distribution network, and promote our products with advertising or direct mail campaigns. Monetize MRAM Intellectual Property Through Licensing Because of the large capital investment required to make large-scale memories, our strategy is to monetize our MRAM intellectual property by licensing other companies to make devices using our technology. We intend to pursue new license agreements, although there can be no assurance as to when or if we will consummate additional agreements. For a discussion regarding our existing license agreements, see Item 1 “Business—Intellectual Property—Licenses.” Transition to Product Sales and License Revenue from Contract Research Government research and development contracts were the source of some of our patents and product developments, and our primary source of revenue for much of our history. We have redeployed personnel from contract research to company-funded product research because we believe company-funded research will have a higher rate of return. Our Products and Markets We operate in one reportable segment. For financial information concerning this segment see Note 6 “Segment Information” of the Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Sensor Products and Markets Our sensor products detect the presence of a magnet or metal to determine position or speed. The GMR changes its electrical resistance depending on the magnetic field. In our devices, GMR is combined with conventional foundry integrated circuitry and packaged in much the same way as conventional integrated circuits. We sell standard, or catalog sensors, and custom sensors designed to meet customers’ exact requirements. Our sensors are quite small, very sensitive to magnetic fields, precise, and reliable. These advantages have allowed us to establish a presence in industrial control applications such as robotics and more recently in the medical device market. 4 Standard sensors Our standard or catalog sensors are generally used to detect the presence of a magnet or metal to determine position or speed. We believe our spintronic sensors are smaller, more precise, and more reliable than competing devices. Our major market for standard sensors is factory automation. Custom and medical sensors Our primary custom products are sensors for medical devices, which are customized to our customers’ requirements and manufactured in accordance with stringent medical device quality standards. Most are used to replace electromechanical magnetic switches. We believe our sensors have important advantages in medical devices compared to electromechanical switches, including no moving parts for inherent reliability, and being smaller, more sensitive, and more precise. Our sensors can be customized using customer-specific integrated signal processing and design variations that can include the range and sensitivity to magnetic fields, electrical resistance, and multi-sensor elements configuration. Anticipated future custom sensor markets include consumer and automotive markets. Coupler Products and Markets Our spintronic couplers add an “IsoLoop” integrated microscopic coil to our basic GMR sensor element. The coil creates a small magnetic field that is picked up by the spintronic sensor, transmitting data almost instantly. Couplers are also known as “isolators” because they electrically isolate the coupled systems. Our IsoLoop couplers are much faster than the fastest optical couplers. We have two main series of couplers: the original IsoLoop 700 Series, and the newer, award-winning IsoLoop 600 Series. The newer couplers use spintronic input stages while our original products use semiconductor input stages. Our couplers are sold primarily for factory and industrial networks. Broadband, telecommunications, and automotive applications are possible in the future. MRAM Products and Markets MRAM uses spintronics to store data, combining the speed of semiconductor memory with the nonvolatility of magnetic disk drives. MRAM is inherently nonvolatile, meaning the data remains even if power is removed. MRAM has been called the ideal or universal memory because it has the potential to combine the speed of SRAM, the density of DRAM, and the nonvolatility of flash memory. Data is stored in the spin of the electrons in thin metal alloy films, and read with spin-dependent tunnel junctions. Unlike electrical charge, the spin of an electron is inherently permanent. In MRAMs, the spin of the electrons is set with tiny bursts of energy. We have invented several types of MRAM memory cells and modes of operation. Advanced MRAM designs that we are developing include Vertical transport MRAM (also known as VMRAM), magnetothermal MRAM, and spin-momentum transfer MRAM. We believe each of these three design approaches have the potential to increase the scalability of MRAM. In the near term, MRAM could replace battery-backed-up SRAMs in mission-critical systems such as military, factory control, point-of-sale terminals, and gaming electronics. MRAM has the potential advantages of being simpler, lower cost, and more reliable than battery/memory systems. Long term, MRAM could address the market for ubiquitous high-density memory. Product Manufacturing Our fabrication facility is a clean-room area with specialized equipment to deposit, pattern, etch, and process spintronic materials. Most of our products are fabricated in our facility using either raw wafers or foundry wafers. Foundry wafers contain conventional electronics that perform housekeeping functions such as voltage regulation and signal conditioning in our products. Each wafer includes thousands of devices. We build spintronics structures on wafers in our fabrication facility and send the completed wafers to Asia for dicing and packaging. The packaged parts are returned to us to be tested, inventoried, and shipped. Sales and Product Distribution We rely primarily on distributors who stock and sell our products throughout the world, including Digi-Key Corporation, one of the largest electronic component distributors in the United States. Our agreements with distributors are generally renewed annually. In addition, Avago, the company comprised of the former Agilent Technologies, Inc. Semiconductor Product Group, and one of the world’s leading suppliers of solid-state couplers, distributes Agilent- and Avago-branded versions of our couplers under an agreement that expires in June 2007. Avago uses its own network of distributors. 5 New Product Status In the past year we began selling several new products including a number of new members of the IsoLoop 600 coupler series. The IsoLoop 600 Series uses spintronic input stages, while our older IsoLoop 700 coupler series uses semiconductor input stages. IsoLoop 600 Series devices are smaller than our older products and provide a simpler interface for markets such as factory automation. We also began selling the AFL-Series digital spintronic switches for use in medical and other markets for advanced sensors. Our Competition Industrial Sensor Competition Several competitors make solid-state industrial magnetic sensors including silicon Hall-effect sensors and anisotropic magnetoresistive (AMR) sensors. We believe those types of sensors are not as sensitive or precise as our sensors. Medical Sensor Competition Our medical sensors face competition from electromechanical magnetic sensors such as reed switches. Reed switches have been in use for several decades. A reed switch uses a pair of contacts that pull together when subjected to a magnetic field, closing an electrical circuit. Our medical sensor competitors include Hermetic Switch, Inc., which manufactures miniature magnetically operated reed switches. Additionally, Meder Electronic AG (Engen/Welschingen, Germany) and Memscap SA (Grenoble, France) manufacture microelectromechanical system (MEMS) reed switches. Because our sensors have no moving parts, we believe they are inherently more reliable than miniature and MEMS reed switches. We also believe our sensors are smaller than the smallest reed switches, more precise in their magnetic switch points, and more sensitive to small magnetic fields. Coupler Competition The two main competing digital coupler technologies are optical couplers and inductive couplers (transformers). Optical couplers use light and light detectors to transmit information; transformers use magnetic fields transmitted between coils. In addition to being a customer, Avago is a leading producer of high-speed optical couplers. Other prominent optical coupler suppliers are Fairchild Semiconductor International, NEC Corporation, Sharp Corporation, Toshiba Corporation, and Vishay Intertechnology. We believe our couplers are considerably faster than even the fastest optical couplers. Inductive couplers are made by a number of companies. Unlike our IsoLoop couplers, inductive couplers require special encoding to transmit logic signals. Furthermore, IsoLoop couplers require much less board space than most optical or inductive couplers. Analog Devices, Inc. and Silicon Laboratories, Inc. market MEMS inductive couplers. While these devices offer some advantages over our couplers and are smaller than other inductive couplers, we believe our devices have higher channel density per area, are faster, and produce less signal distortion. Texas Instruments Inc. has begun marketing capacitive couplers. We believe we have a broader product line and higher channel density than Texas Instruments’ couplers. We make several network signal couplers that combine spintronics coupling with network protocol functions such as RS-485, in a single package. Our competitors in this area include ADI, Linear Technology Inc. (LTI), and Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. Based on a comparison of published specifications, we believe our devices are much faster than the LTI and Maxim network signal couplers. We believe we offer a wider input voltage interface and a more complete line of network protocols than ADI’s network signal couplers. MRAM Competition Most currently available memories are volatile, meaning data is lost when power is removed. Memories in this category include dynamic random access memory (DRAM) and static random access memory (SRAM). MRAM has the potential to match or exceed the speed of such memories without the volatility. Currently available nonvolatile memories include flash memory and ferroelectric random access memory (FRAM). MRAM is potentially faster and uses less power than existing nonvolatile memories. Furthermore, existing nonvolatile memories can be written only a limited number of times before they wear out, while MRAM has virtually unlimited life. Additionally, flash memory may be subject to scalability limitations that could limit its density in coming years. We do not believe MRAM is subject to those limitations. There are many flash memory manufacturers, most of which are large semiconductor companies. Silicon-oxide-nitride-oxide-silicon (SONOS) and thin-film storage (TFS) have been proposed as improvements to flash memories. Simtek Corporation and Cypress Semiconductor Corporation are among companies reported to be developing SONOS memory; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. has said it is developing TFS memory. Both types of memory appear to have many of the limitations of conventional flash memory, including limited speed and endurance. 6 Battery-backed-up SRAM manufacturers include Maxim. We believe that MRAM has the potential of being simpler, lower cost, and more reliable than battery-backed-up SRAM. Emerging technologies competing with MRAM include carbon nanotubes, phase-change memory (PCM; also known as chalcogenide or ovonic memory), polymer memory, and polymeric ferroelectric random access memory (PFRAM). We believe that MRAM has advantages over these technologies and that it is closer to commercialization, more easily manufacturable, more scalable, and has virtually unlimited endurance. Companies developing carbon nanotube memory include Nantero, Inc. Companies developing PCM include Elpida Memory, Inc., IBM Corporation, Infineon, Intel, Macronix International Co., Ltd., Ovonyx, Inc., Philips, and STMicroelectronics. Companies developing polymer memory include Thin Film Electronics ASA and Coatue. Intel may be developing PFRAM. Other companies that may compete with us for MRAM research and development or service business, or that may be attempting to develop MRAM intellectual property with the intention of licensing to others, include Grandis, Inc., Spintec (Grenoble, France), and Spintron (Marseille, France). Principal Suppliers and Raw Materials Our principal suppliers include manufacturers of semiconductor wafers that are incorporated into our products. These include Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation of Shanghai (China), AMI Semiconductor, Inc., Intersil Corporation, Silicon Quest International, Inc., Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, and Texas Instruments Inc. Other companies supply our device packaging services, including CIRTEK Electronics Corporation (Laguna, The Philippines), Circuit Electronics Industries (Ayutthaya, Thailand), and NS Electronics Bangkok (Thailand), Ltd. We maintain inventory of some critical wafers, but we have not identified or qualified alternate suppliers for many of the wafers now being obtained from single sources. Some of our products use processes or tooling unique to a particular packaging vendor, and it might be expensive, time-consuming, or impractical to convert to another vendor in the event of a supply interruption. Supply interruptions could seriously jeopardize our ability to provide products that are critical to our business and operations. Intellectual Property Patents As of March 31, 2006 we had 35 issued U.S. patents assigned to us. We also have a number of foreign patents, a number of U.S. and foreign patents pending, and we have licensed patents from others. Our technology is protected by more than 100 patents worldwide either issued, pending or licensed from others. We are continuing to develop inventions and expect to add to our patent portfolio. There are no patents we regard as critical to our business owned by us or licensed to us that expire in the next 12 months. Much of our intellectual property has been developed with U.S. Government support. In accordance with federal legislation, companies normally may retain the principal worldwide patent rights to any invention developed with U.S. Government support. Certain of our patents cover MRAM cells with transistor selection for data retrieval, which we believe may be necessary for successful high-density, high-performance MRAMs. We believe our 6,275,411 and 6,349,053 U.S. patents, both titled “Spin Dependent Tunneling Memory,” are particularly important. Both patents cover MRAMs using arrays of Spin Dependent Tunnel Junctions. Based on their public disclosures, we believe several companies are pursuing the approach described in these patents. The 6,275,411 patent expires in 2019 and the 6,349,053 patent expires in 2021. We also have patents on advanced MRAM designs that we believe are important, including patents that relate to magnetothermal MRAM, spin-momentum MRAM, and synthetic antiferromagnetic storage. Trademarks Our trademarks include “AT-MRAM,” “GMR Switch,” and “GT Sensor.” “IsoLoop” is our registered trademark. Licenses We have licensed certain MRAM intellectual property to several companies. Our current MRAM licensees include Cypress, Honeywell, Union Semiconductor Technology Corporation, and Motorola, Inc. We received advance payments in conjunction with the Honeywell, USTC, and Motorola agreements. The Motorola and USTC agreements define royalties if and when those licensees begin selling devices using our intellectual property. Both agreements contain royalty limitations, specifically minimum quantities before royalties are paid and ceilings on the royalties we will receive. 7 Agreements with Honeywell Under our agreements with Honeywell, we do not expect to pay royalties to Honeywell for the use of their MRAM intellectual property. Honeywell has rights to certain of our MRAM intellectual property up to a certain point in time. We believe Honeywell does not currently have rights to our more recently developed MRAM intellectual property. Motorola License Motorola has a non-exclusive, non-transferable, and non-assignable license to our MRAM intellectual property. Motorola has since separated Freescale. Motorola and Freescale asked us to consent to Motorola’s assignment of the Patent License Option Agreement to Freescale. We have declined to provide such consent without additional consideration. We believe the Motorola agreement likely terminated in 2005 because Motorola transferred manufacturing to Freescale. Royalty Agreement We have licensed rights to another organization’s GMR-related patent family, and that agreement calls for us to pay royalties on our sales of certain products. Payments under this agreement have not been material to date. The agreement remains in force until the expiration of the last patent, which is in 2009, or until cumulative royalties of $1.2 million have been paid, whichever is earlier. Working Capital Items Like companies in the semiconductor industry, we have historically invested in capital equipment for manufacturing and testing our products, as well as research and development equipment. We have historically deployed significant capital in inventories to have products available from stock, to receive more favorable pricing for raw materials, and to guard against raw material shortages. Major Customers We rely on several large customers for a large percentage of our revenue; these include Avago Technologies (the company comprised of the former Agilent Technologies, Inc. Semiconductor Product Group); St. Jude Medical, Inc.; the U.S. Government; Digi-Key Corporation, and certain other distributors. The loss of any one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on us. For the purposes of this disclosure, all agencies of the U.S. Government are considered a single customer. Backlog As of March 31, 2006 and 2005 we had $682,685 and $2,450,823 of contract research and development backlog we believed to be firm. Of the firm backlog as of March 31, 2006, all is expected to be filled within fiscal 2007. Approximately 90% and 96% of our backlog as of March 31, 2006 and 2005 was from agencies of the U.S. Government. U.S. Government orders that are not yet funded, or contracts awarded but not yet signed are not included in firm backlog. The portion of orders already included in operating revenues on the basis of percentage of completion or program accounting are excluded. We do not believe any material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. Government. There can be no assurance, however of additional contracts or follow-on contracts for expired or completed U.S. Government contracts. We do not believe product sales backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. Our product sales are made primarily under standard purchase orders for delivery of standard products. We have certain agreements that require customers to forecast purchases, however these agreements do not generally obligate the customer to purchase any particular quantity of products. Shipment schedules and quantities actually purchased by customers are often revised to reflect changes in customers needs. In light of semiconductor industry practice and our experience, we do not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog amounts. We believe that only a small portion of our product order backlog is non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant. Seasonality The past two fiscal years our product business has been less in the quarters ended December 31 than the immediately preceding or following quarters. This may be due in part to distributor ordering patterns or customer vacations and shutdowns late in the calendar year. We do not know if this pattern constitutes a seasonal trend or whether it will continue. Research and Development Activities We invested $4,914,348, $5,860,200, and $6,382,865 on research and development for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. All but $1,096,970, $841,731, and $737,447 of the expenditures for those years were funded by customers through research and development contracts. Our research and development contracts are with other companies and various agencies of the U.S. Government. Over the past three fiscal years we invested in the development of new sensors and couplers including rotational speed sensors, a new family of monolithic couplers called the IL600 Series, and new types of isolated RS-485 network transceivers. We also invested in lower-cost product designs. 8 Government Regulations We are subject to various local, state, and federal laws, regulations and agencies that affect businesses generally. These include regulations promulgated by federal and state environmental and health agencies, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and laws pertaining to the hiring, treatment, safety, and discharge of employees. Our Employees We had 50 employees as of March 31, 2006, compared to 64 as of March 31, 2005. The reduction in employees was primarily due to a shift in revenue mix toward product sales, a shift to a distribution-based sales strategy, and increased manufacturing productivity. These changes allowed us to increase our revenue per employee. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe we maintain good relations with our employees. Financial Information About Geographical Areas International sales accounted for approximately 32%, 24%, and 18% of our revenue in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004. More information about geographical areas is contained in “Note 6. Segment Information” of the Financial Statements. Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. Available Information All reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual reports on Forms 10-K and 10-KSB, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-QSB, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Form 14A, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible at no cost through the “Investors” section of our Website (www.nve.com). These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s Website (www.sec.gov). ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We caution readers that the following important factors, among others, could affect our financial condition, operating results, business prospects or any other aspect of NVE, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from that projected or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Although we have attempted to list below the important factors which do or may affect our financial condition, operating results, business prospects or any other aspect of NVE, other factors may in the future prove to be more important. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors. Similarly, we cannot necessarily assess or quantify the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We may lose revenue if any of our large customers cancel, postpone, or reduce their purchases. We rely on several large customers for a large percentage of our revenue; these include Avago Technologies (the company comprised of the former Agilent Technologies, Inc. Semiconductor Product Group), St. Jude Medical, Inc., the U.S. Government, Digi-Key Corporation, and certain other distributors. In fiscal 2006 we reduced our number of manufacturers’ representatives, which increased our dependence on our North American distributors. Orders from these large customers can be cancelled, postponed, or reduced without cause, and the loss of any of these customers could have a significant impact on our revenue and our profitability. We rely on government contracts for a significant percentage of our revenue and we will lose revenue if government funding is reduced or eliminated. U.S. Government contracts accounted for the majority of our fiscal 2005 revenue, and although U.S. Government contracts decreased as a percentage of our revenues in fiscal 2006, such contracts remain a significant portion of our revenue. A material decrease in U.S. Government funding research or disqualification as a vendor to the U.S. Government for any reason would likely hamper future research and development activity as well as related revenue. Failure to qualify as a small business under federal regulations could make us ineligible for some government-funded research grants which could have a significant impact on our revenue and our ability to make research and development progress. Federal regulations place a number of criteria for a business to be eligible to compete for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) awards. Those criteria include number of employees and ownership structure. While we believe we meet the criteria, changes in our ownership beyond our control could cause us to lose our eligibility to compete for SBIR awards, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profits, and research and development efforts. 9 Our backlog may not result in future revenue. While we evaluate each order to determine qualification for inclusion in our firm backlog, there can be no assurance that amounts included in our firm backlog ultimately will result in future revenue. A reduction in our firm backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our firm backlog to result in future revenue, could harm our business and revenue. We face an uncertain economic environment in our industry that could adversely affect our business and operations. The semiconductor market, which is the primary market for our products, has been subject to sudden downturns in the past. Any future downturn in the economic environment would likely have a material adverse impact on our business and revenue. Our reputation could be damaged and we could lose revenue if we fail to meet technical challenges required to produce marketable products. Our products use new technology and we are continually researching and developing product designs and production processes. Our production processes require control of magnetic and other parameters that are not required in conventional semiconductor processes. If we are unable to develop stable designs and production processes we may not be able to produce products that meet our customers’ requirements, which could cause damage to our reputation and loss of revenue. Our failure to meet stringent customer technical requirements could result in the loss of key customers and potentially reduce our sales. Some of our customers, including Avago (the company comprised of the former Agilent Technologies, Inc. Semiconductor Product Group), St. Jude Medical, and Starkey Laboratories, have stringent technical requirements which require our products to pass certain test and qualification criteria before they are accepted by such customers. Failure to meet those criteria could result in the loss of current sales revenue, customers and future sales. Our sensors are incorporated into medical devices, which could expose us to a risk of product liability claims and such claims could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Certain of our sensor products are used in medical devices, including cardiac pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) made by St. Jude Medical, which help sustain human life. We are also marketing our sensor technology to other manufacturers of cardiac pacemakers and ICDs. Although we have an indemnification agreement with a St. Jude Medical company with provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to losses, claims, damages, liabilities, or expenses resulting from bodily injury or property damage arising from the incorporation of our sensors in products sold by St. Jude Medical or others. Existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could limit or invalidate the provisions of our indemnification agreement, or the agreement may not be enforceable in all instances. A successful product liability claim could require us to pay, or contribute to payment of, substantial damage awards, which would have a significant negative effect on our business and financial condition. Federal legislation may not protect us against liability for the use of our sensors in medical devices and a successful liability claim could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Although the Biomaterials Access Assurance Act of 1998 may provide us some protection against potential liability claims, that Act includes significant exceptions to supplier immunity provisions, including limitations relating to negligence or willful misconduct. A successful product liability claim could require us to pay, or contribute to payment of, substantial damage awards, which would have a significant negative effect on our business and financial condition. Any product liability claim against us, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management and have a material adverse impact on our business. Changes in the interaction between our sensors and our customers’ medical devices could cause the medical devices to fail, exposing us to a risk of product liability claims that could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Our sensors function in interaction with our customers’ medical devices. Our sensors are manufactured to meet various electrical, magnetic, and other specifications, but the actual performance of the products is dependent on how they are used in the customers’ devices over the lifetime of the devices. This interaction could be different than expected for a number of reasons. Consequently, it is possible that customers may experience problems with their medical devices that could require device recall or other corrective action, where our sensors met the specification at delivery, and for reasons that are not related primarily or at all to any failure by our product to perform in accordance with specifications. It is possible that our customers or our customers’ patients may assert that our sensors caused or contributed to device failure where our product was not the primary cause of the device performance issue. Any malfunction of our sensors in existing medical devices could lead to the need to recall devices incorporating our sensors from the market, which may be harmful to our reputation and cause a significant loss of revenue. Any malfunction of our sensors could lead to the need to recall existing medical devices incorporating our sensors from the market, which may be harmful to our reputation which is dependent on product safety and efficacy. Even if assertions that our sensors caused or contributed to device failure do not lead to product liability or contract claims, such assertions could 10 harm our reputation and our customer relationships. Any damage to our reputation and/or the reputation of our products, or the reputation of our customers or their products could limit the market for our and our customers’ products and harm our results of operations. We may lose business and revenue if our critical production equipment fails. Our production process relies on certain critical pieces of equipment for defining, depositing, and modifying the magnetic properties of very thin metal films. Some of this equipment was designed or customized by us, and some may no longer be in production. While we have an in-house maintenance staff, maintenance agreements for certain equipment, some critical spare parts, and back-ups for some of the equipment, we cannot be sure we could repair or replace critical manufacturing equipment were it to fail. If we are unable to deliver products we face penalties, including loss of certain exclusive manufacturing rights. Our Agilent supply agreement allows Agilent to gain rights to manufacture couplers based on our technology if we are unable to deliver products on time. The imposition of this penalty could have a material impact on future sales of our products. Furthermore, on reaching certain sales goals, Agilent could gain exclusive rights to distribute certain couplers based on our technology, which could reduce our product sales and leave us partially or totally dependent on Agilent for future coupler sales. Agilent may be able to assign its rights under our agreement to Avago, the company comprised of the former Agilent Semiconductor Product Group. The loss of supply from any of our key single-source wafer suppliers could impact our ability to produce and deliver products and cause loss of revenue. Critical suppliers include our suppliers of certain raw silicon and semiconductor wafers that are incorporated in our products. We maintain inventory of some critical wafers, but we have not identified or qualified alternate suppliers for many of the wafers now being obtained from single sources. Any supply interruptions could seriously jeopardize our ability to provide products that are critical to our business and operations and may cause us to lose revenue. The loss of supply of any critical chemicals or supplies could impact our ability to produce and deliver products and cause loss of revenue. There are a number of critical chemicals and supplies that we require to make products. These include certain photoresists, polymers, metals, and alloys. We maintain inventory of critical chemicals and materials, but in many cases we are dependant on single sources, and some of the materials could be discontinued by their suppliers at any time. Any supply interruptions could seriously jeopardize our ability to provide products that are critical to our business and operations and may cause us to lose revenue. The loss of supply from any of our single-source packaging vendors could impact our ability to produce and deliver products and cause loss of revenue. We are dependent on our packaging vendors including Circuit Electronic Industries Public Co., Ltd. (“CEI,” Ayutthaya, Thailand). Some of our products use processes or tooling unique to a particular packaging vendor, and it might be expensive, time-consuming, or impractical to convert to another vendor in the event of a supply interruption. CEI had been operating under voluntary debt rehabilitation under Thailand law. We have potential alternate vendors in case CEI’s ability to serve our needs becomes impaired, however it could prove expensive or time-consuming, or technically challenging to convert to an alternate vendor. If one of our packaging vendors were to become insolvent we might not be able to recover work in process or finished goods in their possession. Any supply interruptions or loss of inventory could seriously jeopardize our ability to provide products that are critical to our business and operations and may cause us to lose revenue. Higher packaging costs with an alternate vendor could have a significant impact on our profitability. Because we are significantly smaller than the majority of our competitors, we may lack the financial resources needed to increase our market share and future revenue. Our known competitors and potential competitors include Avago, Analog Devices, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor International, Fujitsu Limited, Grandis, Inc., Hermetic Switch, Inc., IBM Corporation, Infineon Technologies AG, Intel Corporation, Linear Technology Inc., Macronix International Co., Ltd., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Meder Electronic AG, Memscap SA, Nantero, Inc., NEC Corporation, Ovonyx, Inc., Ramtron International Corporation, Silicon Laboratories, Inc., Simtek Corporation, Spintec, Spintron, Texas Instruments Inc., Thin Film Electronics ASA, Toshiba Corporation, Vishay Intertechnology, and others. We believe that we face particularly aggressive competition in our coupler business, and we believe that our competition is increasing as the technology matures. This has meant more competitors and more severe pricing pressure. Furthermore, our competitors are narrowing or eliminating performance advantages we may have had. We expect these trends to continue, and our future competitiveness will depend on our ability to develop new products and reduce our product costs. Most of our competitors and potential competitors are established companies that have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than us. While we believe that our products have important 11 competitive advantages, our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing products that perform better or are less expensive than ours, or that would render our products and technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our business may suffer because we have limited influence over the rate of adoption of our technology, and MRAM technology may not build into a large or significant market. A significant portion of our future revenue and profits is dependent on our current and future licensees introducing MRAM products. Production difficulties, technical barriers, high production costs, poor market reception or other problems, almost all of which are outside our control, could prevent the deployment of MRAM or limit its market potential. In addition, our licensees may have other priorities that detract attention and resources from introduction of MRAM products using our technology. Furthermore, competing technologies could prevent or supplant MRAM from becoming an important memory technology. Our license agreements include revenue minimums and royalty limits, which could limit the total amount of revenue we can derive under these agreements. Our existing license agreements do not provide for us to receive royalties until revenue minimums are met by licensees. In addition, some of these agreements place limits on future royalty and license payments. These provisions could substantially delay our potential revenue and profits from these licensing arrangements and could limit the total amount of revenue that we can derive under these license agreements. Such provisions could limit our potential MRAM revenue and profits under existing agreements. Our licensees may not be able to make commercially viable MRAMs, which would limit our revenue from MRAM and likely cause our stock price to decline. MRAM is a new technology, and we are almost completely dependent on licensees to convert our intellectual property into commercially viable MRAM. While our licensees have made samples, there may be technical and manufacturing issues to be resolved before commercially viable devices can be produced, and these problems may never successfully be solved. Our future business may suffer because we may not be able to consummate additional MRAM license agreements. Although there are potential licensees for our MRAM intellectual property in addition to our current licensees, we may never be able to consummate additional license agreements. Potential licensees for our MRAM intellectual property might not be interested unless and until the commercial viability of the technology is demonstrated. Potential licensees could also use their own or a third party’s MRAM intellectual property rather than ours. In addition, our existing agreements place restrictions on future license agreements. Specifically, one of our agreements allows one of our licensees to approve licenses with certain other potential licensees. Each of these limitations could hinder our ability to consummate additional MRAM license agreements. We will not receive royalties if our licensees do not use our intellectual property. Our license agreements do not require our licensees to use our intellectual property. Although we believe, based on their public disclosures, that devices Freescale and Motorola have described use our intellectual property at least to some extent, our licensees could circumvent or find alternatives to all or some of our technology, and our license agreements require royalty payments only if our licensees use our intellectual property in their devices. It is possible that our licensees might make MRAM devices without using our technology or infringing on our patents, and we would not receive royalties on such devices. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights or our technology may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others, which may prevent the future sale of our products or increase the cost of such sales. We protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property by seeking patents, trademarks, and copyrights, and by maintaining trade secrets through entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, suppliers, customers, and prospective customers depending on the circumstances. We hold patents or are the licensee of others owning patented technology covering certain aspects of our sensor, coupler, and MRAM technology. These patent rights may be challenged, rendered unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, rights granted under the patents or under licensing agreements may not provide a competitive advantage to us. At least several potential MRAM competitors have described designs that we believe would infringe on our patents if such designs were to be commercialized. Efforts to legally enforce patent rights can involve substantial expense, which we may not be able to afford and in any case may not be successful. Further, others may independently develop similar, superior, or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us, or our technology may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others. Thus the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. Also, our confidentiality agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information. Our inability to maintain our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future business may suffer if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights with existing licensees. Our existing license agreements have not generated royalties and may never become active or generate significant royalties. Furthermore, our success in enforcing our intellectual property rights may be dependent on our ability to enforce 12 our contract rights under existing license agreements. Our existing licensees could claim without merit that they do not use our intellectual property or claim that one or more of our patents are invalid. In 2000 we were forced to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights with Motorola, and we plan to continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights. Our limited capital resources could put us at a disadvantage if we take legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to negotiate a new MRAM licensing agreement with Freescale. Our Patent License Option Agreement with Motorola provided for termination December 31, 2005 or on the date Motorola ceases manufacturing MRAM Products whichever is later. We believe such a termination is likely to have occurred as a result of Motorola apparently having eliminated its ability to manufacture MRAM Products through its spinoff of Freescale. We are free to negotiate a new agreement with Freescale or an assignment of the Motorola Patent License Option Agreement to Freescale, but would do so only with amendments thereto. There can be no assurance, however, that any such agreement can be reached with Freescale, or that any such agreement with Freescale would be on more favorable terms to NVE than the present agreement with Motorola, or that NVE would receive any value under the existing Patent License Option Agreement or any value under any such further agreement with Freescale. Our business success may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical employees. We have no employment agreements with any of our management other than our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and have no key-person insurance covering employees. Competition for highly qualified management and technical personnel is generally intense and we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While our Chief Technology Officer, Dr. Daughton, no longer generally works full time, he still makes his technical and contract development expertise available to us. If that arrangement terminates, we may not be able to replace his expertise. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting in place, in the future our management will be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse affect on our financial results and the market price of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring each public company to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in Annual Reports on Form 10-KSB or 10-K, and the independent registered public accounting firm auditing such company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. This requirement will apply to our Annual Report for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2007 if we meet the tests for being an “Accelerated Filer” as of September 30, 2006. If we are not deemed to be an Accelerated Filer on that date, under current regulations we will be required to comply with Section 404 in our Annual Report for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008. While we currently anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to compliance with Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of such activities on our operations due in large part to the lack of precedent available by which to measure compliance with such requirements. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, to the extent we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, the resources and costs required to remediate such deficiency could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations. We are presently involved in class action litigation. On February 10, 2006 a lawsuit was filed against NVE and certain of its current and former executive officers and directors in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota by an individual shareholder seeking to represent a class of purchasers of our common stock during the period from May 22, 2003 through February 11, 2005. On March 6 and March 7, 2006, two additional lawsuits were filed in the same court by two additional NVE shareholders, with the same proposed class period, purporting to represent the same class. All of the complaints make similar allegations that the defendants violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by issuing material misrepresentations concerning NVE’s projected revenues and product technology, which artificially inflated the market price of our common stock. Two related actions brought by individual shareholders who seek to represent NVE derivatively have been filed in Hennepin County District Court. Those lawsuits allege that certain officers and directors violated their fiduciary duties to the company. We believe the lawsuits are wholly without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur legal expenses related to these lawsuits. Although insurance may cover a portion of any judgments, if we do not prevail in these lawsuits we may be required to pay substantial amounts which could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operation and financial condition. 13 Risks Related to Buying Our Stock Our stock has been more volatile than other technology sector stocks. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe these fluctuations have been greater on a percentage basis than other technology sector stocks. Our stock may be subject to volatility because it is not listed on a national market. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market (formerly known as the NASDAQ SmallCap Market), which has less daily trading volume on average than the average trading market for companies quoted on other NASDAQ market tiers or the New York Stock Exchange. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our stock price declined in each of the past two fiscal years, and could continue to decline. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • technological innovations by us, our licensees, or our competitors; • the announcement of new products, product enhancements, contracts, or license agreements by us, our licensees, or our competitors; • changes in requirements or demands for our products; • changes in prices of our products and services or our competitors’ products and services; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in revenue estimates, earnings estimates, or market projections by market analysts, speculation in the press or analyst community; • short selling and covering of short positions in our stock; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 