Item 1A. Risk Factors. Item 2. Properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. PART IIItem 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.Market InformationShareholders, Dividends, and Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation PlansStock Performance GraphStock Repurchase Program Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.Item 11. Executive Compensation.Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.SIGNATURES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms Balance Sheets Statements of Income Statements of Comprehensive Income Statements of Shareholders’ Equity Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Financial Statements Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements made in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report and in other materials filed or to be filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) as well as information included in verbal or written statements made by us constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the reform act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of the terminology such as may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, should, or continue, or the negatives of these terms or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. To the extent that this Report contains forward-looking statements regarding the financial condition, operating results, business prospects or any other aspect of NVE, you should be aware that our actual financial condition, operating results and business performance may differ materially from that projected or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements. We have attempted to identify, in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual future experience and results to differ from their current expectations. These differences may be caused by a variety of factors, including but not limited to uncertainties related to the economic environments in the industries we serve, uncertainties related to direct and indirect U.S. Government funding, uncertainties relating to the revenue potential of new products, risks related to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and other specific risks that may be alluded to in this Report or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Report. For more information regarding our risks and uncertainties, see Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Report. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. In General NVE Corporation, referred to as NVE, we, us, or our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information. We manufacture high-performance spintronic products including sensors and couplers that are used to acquire and transmit data. We have also licensed our spintronic magnetoresistive random access memory technology, commonly known as MRAM. NVE History and Background NVE is a Minnesota corporation headquartered in a suburb of Minneapolis. We were founded in 1989 by James M. Daughton, Ph.D., a spintronics pioneer. Our common stock became publicly traded in 2000 through a reverse merger and became NASDAQ listed in 2003. Since our founding, we have been awarded more than $50 million in government research contracts, including more than 30 MRAM development contracts. These contracts have helped us build our intellectual property portfolio. Over the years our product sales have increased and we have reduced our dependence on research contracts. Fiscal years referenced in this report end March 31. Industry Background Much of the electronics industry is devoted to the acquisition, storage, and transmission of information. We have focused on three applications for our spintronic technology: magnetic sensors, couplers, and memories. Sensors acquire information, couplers transmit information, and memories store information. In that sense, our technology can provide the eyes, nerves, and brains of electronic systems. Magnetic sensors can be used for a number of purposes including detecting the position or speed of robotics and mechanisms, or for communicating with implantable medical devices. We believe our spintronic sensors are smaller, more precise, and more reliable than competing devices. Couplers are widely used in factory automation, providing reliable digital communication between electronic subsystems in factories. For example, couplers are used to send data between robots and central controllers at very high speed. As manufacturing automation expands, there is a need for higher speed data and more channel density. Because of their unique properties, we believe our couplers transmit more data at higher speeds and over longer distances than conventional devices. Near-term potential MRAM applications include mission-critical storage such as military, industrial, and anti-tamper applications. Long term, MRAM could address the market for ubiquitous high-density memory. Our Enabling Technology Our designs are generally based on either giant magnetoresistance or tunneling magnetoresistance. These structures produce a large change in electrical resistance depending on the electron spin orientation in a free layer. In giant magnetoresistance (GMR) devices, resistance changes due to conduction electrons scattering at interfaces within the devices. The GMR effect is only significant if the layer thicknesses are less than the mean free path of conduction electrons, which is approximately five nanometers. Our critical GMR conductor layers may be less than two nanometers, or five atomic layers, thick. Technological advances in recent years have made it practical to manufacture such small dimensions. 3 Table of Contents The second type of spintronic structure we use is based on tunneling magnetoresistance (TMR). Such devices are known as Spin-Dependent Tunnel (SDT) junctions or Magnetic Tunnel Junctions (MTJs). SDT junctions use tunnel barriers that are so thin that electrons can “tunnel” through a normally insulating material to cause a resistance change. SDT barrier thicknesses can be in the range of one to four nanometers (less than ten molecular layers). In our products, the spintronic elements are connected to integrated circuitry and packaged in much the same way as conventional integrated circuits. Our Strategy Our vision is to become the leading developer of practical spintronics technology and devices. We plan to do that by selling the products described below and licensing our MRAM technology. To grow product sales, we plan to broaden our sensor and coupler product lines, and longer term to target larger markets such as consumer electronics, automotive electronics, and biosensors. Our Products and Markets We operate in one reportable segment. Sensor Products and Markets Our sensor products detect the strength or gradient of magnetic fields and are often used to determine position or speed. The GMR changes its electrical resistance depending on the magnetic field. In our devices, GMR is combined with conventional foundry integrated circuitry and packaged in much the same way as conventional integrated circuits. We sell standard or catalog sensors, and custom sensors designed to meet customers’ exact requirements. Our sensors are quite small, very sensitive to magnetic fields, precise, and reliable. Standard sensors Our standard, or catalog, sensors are generally used to detect the presence of a magnetic or metallic material to determine position or speed. We believe our spintronic sensors are smaller, more precise, and more reliable than competing devices. Our major market for standard sensors is factory automation. Custom and medical sensors Our primary custom products are sensors for medical devices, which are customized to our customers’ requirements and manufactured under stringent medical device quality standards. Most are used to replace electromechanical magnetic switches. We believe our sensors have important advantages in medical devices compared to electromechanical switches, including no moving parts for inherent reliability, and being smaller, more sensitive, and more precise. Our sensors can be customized using customer-specific integrated signal processing and design variations that can include the range and sensitivity to magnetic fields, electrical resistance, and multisensor elements configuration. Future custom sensor target markets include consumer electronics, automotive electronics, and biosensors. Coupler Products and Markets Our spintronic couplers combine a GMR sensor element and an “IsoLoop” integrated microscopic coil. The coil creates a small magnetic field that is picked up by the spintronic sensor, transmitting data almost instantly. Couplers are also known as “isolators” because they electrically isolate the coupled systems. Our IsoLoop couplers are faster than the fastest optical couplers. We have five lines of coupler products: cost-effective IL500-Series couplers; IL600-Series passive-input couplers; IL700/IL200-Series high-speed couplers; and IL4/IL3-Series isolated network couplers; and IL800-Series top-of-the-line couplers. MRAM Products and Markets MRAM uses spintronics to store data. It has been called the ideal or universal memory because of its potential to combine the speed of SRAM, the density of DRAM, and the nonvolatility of flash memory. Data is stored in the spin of the electrons in thin metal alloy films, and read with spin-dependent tunnel junctions. Unlike electrical charge, the spin of an electron is inherently permanent. We have invented several types of MRAM memory cells including inventions related to advanced MRAM designs and MRAM for tamper prevention or detection. Our strategy is to develop, manufacture, and sell low bit-density MRAM for applications such as tamper prevention and detection. For high bit-density MRAM, our strategy is to license our technology to companies with large-scale memories manufacturing capabilities. 4 Table of Contents Product Manufacturing The heart of our fabrication facility is a cleanroom area with specialized equipment to deposit, pattern, etch, and process spintronic materials. Most of our products are fabricated in our facility using either raw silicon wafers or foundry wafers. Foundry wafers contain conventional electronics that perform housekeeping functions such as voltage regulation and signal conditioning in our products. Each wafer may include thousands of devices. We build spintronics structures on wafers in our fabrication facility. We either saw wafers to be sold in die form, or send wafers to Asia for dicing and packaging. Other production operations include wafer-level inspection and testing. Packaged parts are returned to us to be tested, inventoried, and shipped. Sales and Product Distribution We rely on distributors who stock our products and sell them in more than 75 countries. Distributors of our products include Digi-Key Corporation, Premier Farnell plc companies, and Rhopoint Components Ltd. Our distributor agreements generally renew annually. In addition, Avago Technologies, a leading supplier of solid-state couplers, distributes private-branded versions of some of our couplers under an agreement that expires June 27, 2016. We may add other private-brand coupler partners in the future. New Product Status In the past year we began marketing a number of new products including lines of: • high-performance couplers (the IL800-Series); • high isolation-voltage couplers (the V-Series); • couplers for battery management systems and in-car networks; • current sensors for factory automation and smart-grid applications; and • new sensors for medical devices. Long-term product development programs in fiscal 2014 included: • new sensors for medical devices; • isolated power convertors; • low-power couplers; • smaller couplers; and • antitamper sensors. Our Competition Industrial Sensor Competition Several other companies either make or may have the capability to make GMR or TMR sensors. Also, several competitors make solid-state industrial magnetic sensors including silicon Hall-effect sensors and anisotropic magnetoresistive (AMR) sensors. We believe those types of sensors are not as sensitive as our GMR or TMR sensors. Medical Sensor Competition Our sensors for medical devices face competition from electromechanical magnetic sensors and from other solid-state magnetic sensors. Electromechanical magnetic sensors such as reed and micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) switches have been in use for several decades. Electromechanical competitors include Hermetic Switch, Inc., Meder Electronic AG (Engen/Welschingen, Germany), and Memscap SA (Grenoble, France). Because our sensors have no moving parts, we believe they are inherently more reliable than electromechanical magnetic sensors. We also believe our sensors are smaller than the smallest electromechanical magnetic sensors, more precise in their magnetic switch points, and more sensitive. Compared to other solid-state sensors, our medical sensors may have advantages in size, sensitivity to small magnetic fields, or electrical interface simplicity. Coupler Competition Competing coupler technologies include optical couplers, inductive couplers (transformers), capacitive couplers, and radio-frequency modulation couplers. In addition to being a customer, Avago is a leading producer of high-speed optical couplers. Other prominent optical coupler suppliers are Fairchild Semiconductor International, Lite-On Technology Corporation, Renesas Electronics Corporation, Toshiba Corporation, and Vishay Intertechnology. Our strategy is to compete based on product features rather than to compete solely on price. IsoLoop couplers are smaller and therefore require less circuit board space per channel than most competing couplers. Our other advantages over competing technologies may include less signal distortion, longer product life, and lower power consumption. 5 Table of Contents MRAM Competition A number of companies compete or may compete with us for MRAM research and development or service business, or may be attempting to develop MRAM intellectual property for licensing to others. Emerging technologies that could compete with MRAM include graphene and carbon nanotubes, phase-change memory (PCM; also known as PRAM, PCRAM, chalcogenide, CRAM, or Ovonic memory), resistive RAM (ReRAM or RRAM), memory resistors (“memristors”), and conductive metal oxide (CMOx) memory. MRAM may have advantages over these technologies in either manufacturability, speed, bit density, data retention, or endurance. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Our principal sources of raw materials include suppliers of raw silicon and semiconductor foundry wafers that are incorporated into our products, and suppliers of device packaging services. Our wafers sources are based around the world; most of our packaging services take place in Asia. Intellectual Property Patents As of March 31, 2014 we had more than 50 issued U.S. patents assigned to us. We also have a number of foreign patents, a number of U.S. and foreign patents pending, and we have licensed patents from others. There are no patents we regard as critical to our current business owned by us or licensed to us that expire in the next 12 months. Much of our intellectual property has been developed with U.S. Government support. Under federal legislation, companies normally may retain the principal worldwide patent rights to any invention developed with U.S. Government support. Certain of our patents cover inventions we believe may be necessary for successful high-density, high-performance MRAMs. We believe U.S. patents 6,538,921 titled “Circuit Selection of Magnetic Memory Cells and Related Cell Structures,” and 6,744,086 titled “Current switched magnetoresistive memory cell” are particularly important. The 6,538,921 patent expires August 14, 2021. On September 16, 2012 the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted a request by Everspin Technologies, Inc. for an inter partes reexamination of patent 6,538,921. We have appealed an examiner’s decision to reject some of the claims of the patent, and that appeal is in process. The 6,744,086 patent expires May 15, 2022. On May 6, 2014 the 6,744,086 patent was reissued as RE 44,878. We also have patents on advanced MRAM designs that we believe are important, including patents that relate to magnetothermal MRAM, spin-momentum MRAM, and synthetic antiferromagnetic storage. Trademarks “NVE” and “IsoLoop” are our registered trademarks. Other trademarks we claim include “GMR Switch” and “GT Sensor.” Seasonality In some years we have observed weak product sales late in the calendar year, possibly due to ordering patterns or customer vacations and shutdowns. We cannot predict whether this seasonal pattern will occur in future years. Working Capital Items Like other companies in the electronics industry, we have historically invested in capital equipment for manufacturing and testing our products, as well as research and development equipment. We have also deployed significant capital in inventories to have finished products available from stock, to receive more favorable pricing for raw materials, and to guard against raw material shortages. Dependence on Major Customers We rely on several large customers for a significant percentage of our revenue, including Phonak AG; St. Jude Medical, Inc.; certain other medical device manufacturers; and certain distributors. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Firm Backlog As of March 31, 2014 we had $165,308 of contract research and development backlog we believed to be firm, compared to $194,416 as of March 31, 2013. We expect the firm backlog as of March 31, 2014 to be filled in fiscal 2015. All of our backlog as of March 31, 2014 was from agencies of the U.S. Government. U.S. Government orders that are not yet funded, or contracts awarded but not yet signed, are not included in firm backlog. We do not believe any material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. Government. There can be no assurance of additional contracts or follow-on contracts for expired or completed U.S. Government or other contracts. 6 Table of Contents Our product sales are made primarily under standard purchase orders, which are generally cancellable. Therefore product order backlog is not included in “firm backlog,” and product sales backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of future results. We also have certain agreements that require customers to forecast purchases; however, these agreements do not generally obligate the customer to purchase any particular quantity of products. Based on semiconductor industry practice and our experience, we do not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog amounts. Research and Development Activities Over the past three fiscal years our research and development activities have included development of new sensors, couplers, and memories, as well as related underlying technologies. We spent $3,131,430 for fiscal 2014, $2,304,710 for fiscal 2013, and $1,887,297 for fiscal 2012 in company-sponsored research and development activities. Additionally, we spent $794,071 during fiscal 2014, $2,040,640 during fiscal 2013, and $3,261,191 during fiscal 2012 on customer-sponsored research and development contract activities. These research and development contracts were with various agencies of the U.S. Government as well as non-government entities. Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position to date. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could result in expenses related to emission abatement or remediation, but we are currently unable to estimate such expenses. Number of Employees We had 54 employees as of March 31, 2014. Our employment can fluctuate due to a variety of factors. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe we maintain good relations with our employees. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Foreign sales accounted for approximately 57% of our revenue in fiscal 2014. More information about geographic areas is contained in “Note 8 – Concentrations” to the Financial Statements included in this report. Available Information All reports we file with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy statements and additional proxy materials on Schedule 14A, as well as any amendments to those reports and schedules, are accessible at no cost through the “Investors” section of our Website (www.nve.com). We make those filings available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. These filings are also accessible through the SEC’s Website (www.sec.gov). ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We caution readers that the following important factors, among others, could affect our financial condition, operating results, business prospects or any other aspect of NVE, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from that projected or estimated by us in the forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Although we have attempted to list below the important factors that do or may affect our financial condition, operating results, business prospects, or any other aspect of NVE, other factors may in the future prove to be more important. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors. Similarly, we cannot necessarily assess or quantify the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We may lose revenue if any of our large customers cancel, postpone, or reduce their purchases. We rely on several large customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. These large customers include Phonak AG; St. Jude Medical, Inc.; certain other medical device manufacturers; and certain distributors. Although we have agreements with certain large customers, these agreements do not obligate customers to purchase from us and may not prevent price reductions. Furthermore, orders from our large customers can generally be reduced, postponed, or canceled. Any decreases in purchase quantities or purchase prices, or the loss of any of our large customers, could have a significant impact on our revenue and our profitability. We risk losing business to our competitors. Known product competitors include Avago Technologies; Analog Devices, Inc.; Fairchild Semiconductor International; Hermetic Switch, Inc.; Linear Technology Inc.; Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; Meder Electronic AG; Memscap SA; NEC Corporation; Sharp Corporation; Silicon Laboratories, Inc.; Texas Instruments Incorporated; Toshiba Corporation; Vishay Intertechnology; and others. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than us. We believe that our competition is increasing as the technology and markets mature. This has meant more competitors and more severe pricing pressure. In addition, our competitors may be narrowing or eliminating our performance advantages. We expect these trends to continue, and we may lose business to competitors or it may be necessary to significantly reduce our prices in order to acquire or retain business. These factors could cause a material adverse impact on our financial condition, revenue, gross profit margins, or income. 7 Table of Contents We are dependent on customers to integrate our products into next-level assemblies. We are dependent on customers to integrate our products into next-level assemblies with other components in order for some of our products to be commercially viable. There can be no assurance that such customers will manufacture appropriate assembly products or, if they do manufacture such products, that they will choose to use our products. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by such customers could adversely affect the market for our products and could have a significant impact on our revenue and our profitability. We may lose revenue if we are unable to renew agreements with large customers. Our agreement with Avago Technologies, Inc., as amended, expires June 27, 2016; our Phonak AG Supply Agreement expires March 31, 2015; and our Supplier Partnering Agreement with St. Jude Medical, as amended, expires January 1, 2016. We cannot predict if any of these agreements will be renewed, or if renewed, under what terms. Although it is possible we could continue to sell products to these customers without formal agreements, an inability to agree on mutually acceptable terms or the loss of any of these large customers could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and our profitability. We will lose revenue if government contract funding is reduced, delayed, or eliminated. Although our revenue from agencies of the U.S. Government was less than 10% of our total revenue in each of the past three fiscal years, a material decrease in U.S. Government funded research or disqualification as a vendor to the U.S. Government for any reason could hamper future research and development activity and decrease related revenue. In addition to direct Government funding, certain of our non-Government customers and prospective customers depend on Government support to fund their contracts with us. Our direct and indirect Government funding depends on adequate continued funding of the agencies and their programs. Such funding is affected by Government budgets and priorities that can change and over which we have no control, and delays in such funding can occur for a number of reasons. Interruptions in the Government funding process such as federal budget delays, debt ceiling limitations, partial shutdowns, sequestration, or Department of Defense spending cuts, may impact Government contract funding. Furthermore, a significant portion of our Government funding has been through Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) or Small Business Technology Transfer Research (STTR) contracts. SBIR/STTR budgets, eligibility, or funding limits may be changed by legislation or by agencies such as the Department of Defense. If we were barred for any reason from U.S. government contracts there could be a significant adverse impact on our revenue and our ability to make research and development progress. If we were to be charged with violation of certain laws or if the U.S. Government were to determine that we are not a “presently responsible contractor,” we could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a violation, barred for up to three years from receiving new U.S. Government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts in defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. Being barred for any reason from U.S. Government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profits, and research and development efforts. We face an uncertain economic environment in the industries we serve, which could adversely affect our business. We sell our products into the semiconductor market, which is highly cyclical. Additionally, effects of U.S. healthcare reform legislation could have an adverse effect on the economic environment for the medical device industries we serve. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery, worldwide or in the industries we serve. The economic environment could have a material adverse impact on our business and revenue. Our reputation could be damaged and we could lose revenue if we fail to meet technical challenges required to produce marketable products. Our products use new technology and we are continually researching and developing product designs and production processes. Our production processes require control of dimensional, magnetic, and other parameters that are not required in conventional semiconductor processes. If we are unable to develop stable designs and production processes, we may not be able to produce products that meet our customers’ requirements, which could cause damage to our reputation and loss of revenue. Failure to meet stringent customer requirements could result in the loss of key customers and reduce our sales. Some of our customers, including certain medical device manufacturers, have stringent technical and quality requirements that require our products to meet certain test and qualification criteria or to adopt and comply with specific quality standards. Certain customers also periodically audit our performance. Failure to meet technical or quality requirements or a negative customer audit could result in the loss of current sales revenue, customers, and future sales. We could be subject to claims based on warranty, product liability, or delivery failures. Claims based on warranty, product liability, or delivery failures that could lead to significant expenses as we defend such claims or pay damage awards. We may also incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or end consumer for such claims. In addition, if our customers recall products containing our products, we may incur costs and expenses relating to the recall. Costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty, delivery claims or product recalls may adversely affect our business and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Some of our products are incorporated into medical devices, which could expose us to a risk of product liability claims and such claims could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Certain of our products are used in medical devices, including devices that help sustain human life. We are also marketing our technology to other manufacturers of cardiac pacemakers and ICDs. Although we have indemnification agreements with certain customers including provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to losses, claims, damages, liabilities, or expenses resulting from bodily injury or property damage arising from the incorporation of our products in devices sold by our customers. Our indemnifying customers may not have the financial resources to cover all liability. Existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could limit or invalidate the provisions of our indemnification agreements, or the agreements may not be enforceable in all instances. A successful product liability claim could require us to pay, or contribute to payment of, substantial damage awards, which would have a significant negative effect on our business and financial condition. Federal legislation may not protect us against liability for the use of our products in medical devices and a successful liability claim could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Although the Biomaterials Access Assurance Act of 1998 may provide us some protection against potential liability claims, that Act includes significant exceptions to supplier immunity provisions, including limitations relating to negligence or willful misconduct. A successful product liability claim could require us to pay, or contribute to payment of, substantial damage awards, which would have a significant negative effect on our business and financial condition. Any product liability claim against us, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert the time, attention, and resources of our management and have a material adverse impact on our business. Any malfunction of our products in existing medical devices could lead to the need to recall devices incorporating our products from the market, which may be harmful to our reputation and cause a significant loss of revenue. Any malfunction of our products could lead to the need to recall existing medical devices incorporating our products from the market, which may be harmful to our reputation because it is dependent on product safety and efficacy. Even if assertions that our products caused or contributed to device failure do not lead to product liability or contract claims, such assertions could harm our reputation and our customer relationships. Any damage to our reputation and/or the reputation of our products, or the reputation of our customers or their products could limit the market for our and our customers’ products and harm our results of operations. We may lose business and revenue if our critical production equipment fails. Our production process relies on certain critical pieces of equipment for defining, depositing, and modifying the magnetic properties of thin films. Some of this equipment was designed or customized by us, and some may no longer be in production. While we have an in-house maintenance staff, maintenance agreements for certain equipment, some critical spare parts, and back-ups for some of the equipment, we cannot be sure we could repair or replace critical manufacturing equipment were it to fail. The loss of supply from any of our key single-source wafer suppliers could impact our ability to produce and deliver products and cause loss of revenue. Our critical suppliers include suppliers of certain raw silicon and semiconductor foundry wafers that are incorporated in our products. We maintain inventory of some critical wafers, but we have not identified or qualified alternate suppliers for many of the wafers now being obtained from single sources. Increased industry demand due to an economic recovery or other factors beyond our control or ability to predict could cause or exacerbate wafer supply shortages. Any wafer supply interruptions could seriously jeopardize our ability to provide products that are critical to our business and operations and may cause us to lose revenue. The loss of supply of any critical chemicals or supplies could impact our ability to produce and deliver products and cause loss of revenue. There are a number of critical chemicals and supplies that we require to make products. These include certain gases, photoresists, polymers, and metals. We maintain inventory of critical chemicals and materials, but in many cases we are dependent on single sources, and some of the materials could be subject to shortages or be discontinued by their suppliers at any time. Furthermore, current and future climate change regulations could increase our costs or cause the loss of supply of critical chemicals. We use chemicals such as sulfur hexafluoride in our manufacturing process that have been identified as greenhouse gases. If such chemicals were restricted or prohibited we would need to obtain substitutes that might be more expensive or less available. Supply interruptions or shortages for any reason could seriously jeopardize our ability to provide products that are critical to our business and operations and may cause us to lose revenue. 9 Table of Contents The loss of supply from any of our packaging vendors could impact our ability to produce and deliver products and cause loss of revenue. We are dependent on our packaging vendors. Because of the unique materials our products use, the complexity of some of our products, and the high isolation voltage specifications of our couplers, many of our products are more challenging to package than conventional integrated circuits. Some of our products use processes or tooling unique to a particular packaging vendor, and it might be expensive, time-consuming, or impractical to convert to another vendor in the event of a supply interruption. We have alternate vendors or potential alternate vendors for the substantial majority of our product sales, but it could prove expensive, time-consuming, or technically challenging to convert certain products to an alternate vendor. We might not be able to recover work in process or finished goods in their possession if one of our packaging vendors were to become insolvent or disrupted by acts of God, including floods, typhoons, or earthquakes. Furthermore, an alternate vendor may not have sufficient capacity available to meet our requirements. Supply from one of our packaging vendors, Circuit Electronic Industries Public Co., Ltd. (“CEI”) of Ayutthaya, Thailand is at risk because it has been operating under voluntary debt rehabilitation under Thailand law since 2005, and was severely damaged by flooding of its facility in 2011. CEI and certain other packaging vendors are in flood-susceptible areas. Flooding risks to such vendors may increase in the future due to possible higher ocean levels and other potential effects of climate change. Any supply interruptions or loss of inventory could seriously jeopardize our ability to provide products that are critical to our business and operations and may cause us to lose revenue. We are subject to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries that could impair our results of operations. Foreign sales were approximately 57% of our revenue for fiscal 2014, and we expect foreign sales to continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue. Furthermore, we rely on suppliers in China, India, Taiwan, Thailand, and other foreign countries. Risks relating to operating in foreign markets that could impair our results of operations include economic and political instability; difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties, and other trade barriers; transportation delays; acts of God, including floods, typhoons, and earthquakes; and other uncertainties relating to the administration of, or changes in, or new interpretation of, the laws, regulations, and policies of jurisdictions where we do business. Our business and our reliance on intellectual property exposes us to litigation risks. If patent infringement claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new noninfringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be costly or could increase the cost of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement, and we may be required to indemnify our customers against expenses relating to possible infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs or harm our operating results. Our business and our reliance on intellectual property exposes us to litigation risks. If patent infringement claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new noninfringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be costly or could increase the cost of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement, and we may be required to indemnify our customers against expenses relating to possible infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs or harm our operating results. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights. We protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property by seeking patents, trademarks, and copyrights, and by maintaining trade secrets through entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, suppliers, customers, and prospective customers depending on the circumstances. We hold patents or are the licensee of others owning patented technology covering certain aspects of our products and technology. These patent rights may be challenged, rendered unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. Two of our patents have been subject to inter partes reexamination proceedings by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office initiated by Everspin Technologies, Inc. as a defensive action in connection with our litigation against Everspin. The claims of one of the patents were invalidated, and a final adverse decision on the other inter partes reexamination or any future reexamination proceedings could invalidate some or all of the patent claims. Additionally, rights granted under the patents or under licensing agreements may not provide a competitive advantage to us. We have filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Everspin and at least several other companies have described designs that we believe may infringe on our patents if such designs were commercialized. Efforts to enforce patent rights can involve substantial expense and may not be successful. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar, superior, or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us, or our technology may prove to infringe on patents or rights owned by others. Thus the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. Also, our confidentiality agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information. Our inability to maintain our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to enforce our patents against Motorola, Freescale, or Everspin. Our Patent License Option Agreement with Motorola provided for termination on December 31, 2005 or on the date Motorola ceases manufacturing MRAM Products, whichever is later. We believe such a termination is likely to have occurred as a result of Motorola apparently having eliminated its ability to manufacture MRAM Products through its spinoff of Freescale. In 2008 Freescale announced that it had transferred its MRAM technology and intellectual property to an independent company, Everspin Technologies, Inc. We believe we are free to negotiate a new agreement with Freescale or Everspin, or an assignment of the Motorola Patent License Option Agreement, but we have said we would do so only with amendments thereto. A settlement agreement by and between Everspin and us limits our rights to sue Everspin for patent infringement and prevents us from asserting three specific patents against Everspin. There can be no assurance that we can successfully enforce any of our other patents, or that any agreement will be reached with Freescale or Everspin, or that NVE would receive any value under the existing agreement with Motorola or any value under any such further agreement with Freescale or Everspin. Our business success may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified employees. We have employment agreements with certain employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, but those agreements do not prevent employees from leaving the company. Competition for highly qualified management and technical personnel can be intense and we may not be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We could incur losses on our marketable securities. At March 31, 2014, we held $94,382,401 in short-term and long-term marketable securities, representing approximately 90% of our total assets. A number of the securities we hold have been downgraded by Moody’s or Standard and Poor’s indicating a possible increase in default risk. Conditions and circumstances beyond our control or ability to anticipate can cause downgrades and increases in default risk, and such downgrades or increases in default risk are possible at any time. Additionally, the assignment of a high credit rating does not preclude the risk of default on any marketable security. We could incur losses on our marketable securities, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, income, or cash flows. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not remediated, could result in material financial misstatements. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to insufficient segregation of duties within the financial reporting and information technology environments, in conjunction with insufficient documented controls within revenue and journal entry processes, insufficient documentation regarding precision of monitoring controls and insufficient compensating reconciliation and review controls to prevent a more than remote possibility of a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in the 1992 Internal Control – An Integrated Framework. We have implemented new controls to remediate these material weaknesses, but these new controls have not yet been fully tested. If our remedial measures are insufficient, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our financial statements could contain material misstatements and we could be required to adjust or restate our financial results. We do not currently plan to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our Common Stock and do not currently plan any dividends. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable to you because you will only have a return on your investment if our stock price appreciates. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. From time to time our stock price has decreased sharply, and could decline in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • the announcement of new products, product enhancements, contracts, or license agreements by us or our competitors; • delays in our introduction of new products or technologies or market acceptance of these products or technologies; • changes in demand for our customers’ products; • quarterly variations in our operating results, revenue, or revenue growth rates; • changes in revenue estimates, earnings estimates, or market projections by market analysts; • speculation in the press or analyst community about our business, potential revenue, or potential earnings; • general economic conditions or market conditions specific to industries we or our customers serve or may serve; • legal proceedings involving us, including intellectual property litigation or class action litigation; and • our stock repurchase and dividend policies and decisions. 11 Table of Contents 