Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in your decision as to whether or not to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. We have a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit and expect to incur losses in the future. Given the high level of expenditures associated with our business and our inability to generate revenues sufficient to cover such expenditures, we have had a history of operating losses since our inception. We had net losses of $26.3 million, $20.5 million and $9.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $412.6 million as of December 31, 2005. In order to develop and commercialize our technologies, particularly our prostate-specific membrane antigen technology, and expand our products, we expect to incur significant increases in our expenses over the next several years. As a result, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to become profitable. To date, we have taken affirmative steps to address our trend of operating losses. Such steps include, among other things: • undergoing steps to realign and implement our focus as a product-driven biopharmaceutical company; • establishing and maintaining our in-house specialty sales force; • reacquiring North American and Latin American marketing rights to QUADRAMET from Berlex Laboratories in August 2003; and • enhancing our marketed product portfolio through marketing alliances and strategic arrangements. 34 Table of Contents Although we have taken these affirmative steps, we may never be able to successfully implement them, and our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon the factors discussed elsewhere in this section entitled, “Risk Factors.” As a result, we may never be able to generate or sustain significant additional revenue or achieve profitability. We depend on sales of QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT for substantially all of our near-term revenues. We expect QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT to account for substantially all of our product related revenues in the near future. For the year ended December 31, 2005, revenues from QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT accounted for approximately 53% and 47%, respectively, of our product related revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2004, revenues from QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT each accounted for approximately 50% of our product related revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2003, royalty and product revenues from QUADRAMET and sales revenues from PROSTASCINT accounted for approximately 35% and 60%, respectively, of our product related revenues. If QUADRAMET or PROSTASCINT does not achieve broader market acceptance, either because we fail to effectively market such products or our competitors introduce competing products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. A Small Number of Customers Account for the Majority of Our Sales, and the Loss of One of Them, or Changes in Their Purchasing Patterns, Could Result in Reduced Sales, Thereby Adversely Affecting Our Operating Results. We sell our products to a small number of radiopharmacy networks. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we received 67% of our total revenues from three customers, as follows: 47% from Cardinal Health (formerly Syncor International Corporation); 11% from Mallinckrodt Inc.; and 9% from GE Healthcare (formerly Amersham Health). During the year ended December 31, 2004, we received 68% of our total revenues from three customers, as follows: 46% from Cardinal Health (formerly Syncor International Corporation); 12% from Mallinckrodt Inc.; and 10% from GE Healthcare (formerly Amersham Health). During the year ended December 31, 2003, we received 69% of our total revenues from four customers, as follows: 24% from Cardinal Health (formerly Syncor International Corporation); 23% from Berlex Laboratories Inc.; 14% from Mallinckrodt Inc., and 8% from GE Healthcare (formerly Amersham Health). The small number of radiopharmacies, consolidation in this industry or financial difficulties of these radiopharmacies could result in the combination or elimination of customers for our products. We anticipate that our results of operations in any given period will continue to depend to a significant extent upon sales to a small number of customers. As a result of this customer concentration, our revenues from quarter to quarter and business, financial condition and results of operations may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the failure of customer orders to materialize as and when anticipated. None of our customers have entered into an agreement requiring on-going minimum purchases from us. We cannot assure you that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at current levels, if at all. The loss of one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on acceptance of our products by the medical community for the continuation of our revenues. Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend on the acceptance of our marketed products as safe, effective and cost-efficient alternatives to other available treatment and diagnostic protocols by the medical community, including: • health care providers, such as hospitals and physicians; and • third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations. With respect to PROSTASCINT, our customers, including technologists and physicians, must successfully complete our Partners in Excellence, or PIE, Program, a proprietary training program designed to promote the correct acquisition and interpretation of PROSTASCINT images. This product is technique-dependent and requires a learning commitment by technologists and physicians and their acceptance of this product as part of their treatment 35 Table of Contents practices. With respect to QUADRAMET, we believe that challenges we may encounter in generating market acceptance for this product include the need to further educate patients and physicians about QUADRAMET’s properties, approved uses and how QUADRAMET may be differentiated from other radiopharmaceuticals and used in combination with other treatments for the palliation of pain due to metastatic bone disease, such as analgesics, opioids, bisphosphonates, and chemotherapeutics. If we are unable to educate our existing and future customers about PROSTASCINT and QUADRAMET, our revenues may decrease. If PROSTASCINT or QUADRAMET does not achieve broader market acceptance, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. Generating market acceptance and sales of our products has proven difficult. We launched ONCOSCINT CR/OV in December 1992, PROSTASCINT in October 1996, QUADRAMET in March 1997, a brachytherapy product in February 2001 and NMP22 BLADDERCHEK in November 2002. Revenues for PROSTASCINT grew from $55,000 in 1996 to $7.4 million in 2005. Royalties and sales of QUADRAMET grew from $3.3 million in 1997 to $8.4 million in 2005. Royalties from sales of QUADRAMET in the initial years of sales were supported by a guaranteed minimum revenue arrangement with the third party licensor of QUADRAMET. We discontinued selling ONCOSCINT CR/OV in December 2002, brachytherapy products in January 2003 and NMP22 BLADDERCHEK in December 2004. Currently, substantially all of our revenues are derived from sales of PROSTASCINT and QUADRAMET. We rely heavily on our collaborative partners. Our success depends largely upon the success and financial stability of our collaborative partners. We have entered into the following agreements for the development, sale, marketing, distribution and manufacture of our products, product candidates and technologies: • a license agreement with The Dow Chemical Company relating to the QUADRAMET technology; • a manufacturing and supply agreement for the manufacture of QUADRAMET with Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc.; • a manufacturing agreement for the manufacture of PROSTASCINT with Laureate Pharma, L.P.; • marketing, license and supply agreements with Advanced Magnetics, Inc. related to COMBIDEX and ferumoxytol (formerly Code 7228); • a distribution services agreement with Cardinal Health 105, Inc. (formerly Cord Logistics, Inc.) for PROSTASCINT; • various agreements which form and control our joint venture with Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for the development of PSMA for in vivo immunotherapy for prostate and other cancers; • a license agreement with The Dow Chemical Company relating to Dow’s proprietary MeO-DOTA bifunctional chelant technology for use with our Therapeutic 7E11-C5 Monoclonal Antibody program; • a development and manufacturing agreement with Laureate Pharma, L.P. for the scale-up for the cGMP manufacturing of a MeO-DOTA chelator conjugate of the 7E11-C5 monoclonal antibody; • a collaboration agreement between our joint venture and Seattle Genetics, Inc. for an exclusive worldwide license to SGI’s proprietary ADC Technology; and • a license agreement between our joint venture and AlphaVax Human Vaccines, Inc. Because our collaborative partners are responsible for certain manufacturing and distribution activities, among others, these activities are outside our direct control and we rely on our partners to perform their obligations. In the event that our collaborative partners are entitled to enter into third party arrangements that may economically 36 Table of Contents disadvantage us, or do not perform their obligations as expected under our agreements, our products may not be commercially successful. As a result, any success may be delayed and new product development could be inhibited with the result that our business, financial condition and results of operation could be significantly and adversely affected. In January 2006, we filed a complaint against Advanced Magnetics in the Massachusetts Superior Court for breach of contract, fraud, unjust enrichment, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in connection with the parties’ 2000 license agreement. The complaint seeks damages along with a request for specific performance requiring Advanced Magnetics to take all reasonable steps to secure FDA approval of COMBIDEX in compliance with the terms of the licensing agreement. In February 2006, Advanced Magnetics filed an answer to our complaint and asserted various counterclaims, including tortuous interference, defamation, consumer fraud and abuse of process. We believe these counterclaims have no merit and we plan to conduct a vigorous defense of these claims. Our business could be harmed if certain agreements expire or are terminated. If our collaborative agreements expire or are terminated and we cannot renew or replace them on commercially reasonable terms, our business and financial results may suffer. If the licenses and/or agreements described below expire or are terminated, we may not be able to find suitable alternatives to them on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, if at all. The loss of the right to use these technologies that we have licensed or the loss of any services provided to us under these agreements would significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in January 2003, we provided Draximage Inc. with notice of our intent to terminate our product manufacturing and supply agreement and license agreement with Draximage relating to the brachytherapy products which represented 20% of our product-related revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002. In April 2003, we entered into an agreement with Draximage formally terminating each of these agreements. We no longer market and sell the brachytherapy products. We currently depend on the following agreements for our present and future operating results: Dow Chemical. In May 1993, we obtained an exclusive license from The Dow Chemical Company to use QUADRAMET, in North America, as a therapeutic radiopharmaceutical for metabolic bone disease or tumor regression for cancer caused by metastatic or primary cancer in bone in humans, and for the treatment of disease characterized by osteoblastic response in humans. Our license was expanded to include Latin America in 1995. Our license agreement with Dow with respect to QUADRAMET will remain in effect, unless earlier terminated, for a period of twenty (20) years from May 30, 1993 or until the last to expire of the related patents. We anticipate such termination date to be May 30, 2013. Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc. QUADRAMET is manufactured by BMS-MI under the terms of a manufacturing and supply agreement with us which became effective on January 1, 2004. Under this agreement, BMS-MI has agreed to manufacture, supply and distribute QUADRAMET for us in exchange for a minimum payment of at least $4.2 million annually, subject to future annual price adjustment, through 2008. After 2008, the agreement will then renew for five successive one-year periods. The agreement is terminable by either party, at any time, upon two years notice to the other. We also pay BMS-MI a variable amount per month for each order placed to cover the cost of customer service. Agreement with Dr. Horosziewicz regarding PROSTASCINT. In 1989, we entered into an agreement with Dr. Julius S. Horosziewicz. Under this agreement, we were assigned certain rights to the patent claiming the 7E11-C5 antibody, as well as additional patents relating to the PROSTASCINT product and commercialization rights thereto. Under this agreement, we have made, and may continue to make, certain payments to Dr. Horosziewicz, which obligation will remain in effect until the expiration of the last related patent in 2015. Laureate Pharma, L.P. In September 2004, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing agreement with Laureate Pharma, L.P. Under this agreement, Laureate is manufacturing PROSTASCINT for us in exchange for expected payments of at least an aggregate of $5.1 million through the end of the contract. This agreement will terminate, unless terminated earlier pursuant to its terms, upon Laureate’s completion of the production campaign of PROSTASCINT and shipment of the resulting products from Laureate’s facility in Princeton, NJ. We believe that 37 Table of Contents this agreement will provide us with a sufficient supply of PROSTASCINT to satisfy our commercial requirements for approximately the next three to four years, based upon recent sales levels. In addition, we believe the agreement will provide sufficient supply of 7E11-C5 required for the initial clinical development of our therapeutic program. In October 2004, Laureate was acquired by Safeguard Scientifics, Inc. Laureate has continued to operate as a full service contract manufacturing organization and we have not experienced any disruption in Laureate’s performance of its obligations to produce PROSTASCINT. Advanced Magnetics, Inc. In August 2000, we entered into a license and marketing agreement with Advanced Magnetics, Inc. for COMBIDEX, for all applications, and ferumoxytol (formerly Code 7228) for oncology applications only. In 2000, we also entered into a supply agreement with Advanced Magnetics for COMBIDEX. We have exclusive United States marketing rights to COMBIDEX for all applications. COMBIDEX (ferumoxtran-10) is an investigational functional molecular imaging agent consisting of iron oxide nanoparticles for use in conjunction with magnetic resonance imaging to aid in the differentiation of cancerous from normal lymph nodes, and is currently under review by the FDA. In September 2004, Advanced Magnetics submitted a complete response to an approvable letter received in June 2000 from the FDA for COMBIDEX. On March 3, 2005, the FDA’s Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) voted 15 to 4 to not recommend approval of the proposed broad indication for COMBIDEX being sought by Advanced Magnetics. On March 24, 2005, Advanced Magnetics informed us that Advanced Magnetics received an approvable letter from the FDA for COMBIDEX, subject to certain conditions. We cannot assure you that Advanced Magnetics will receive FDA approval for COMBIDEX or ferumoxytol (for oncology applications). Our license and marketing agreement with Advanced Magnetics will continue until August 25, 2010, and will thereafter automatically renew for successive five year periods, unless notice of non-renewal or termination is given by us or Advanced Magnetics, 90 days prior to the commencement of any renewal period. In January 2006, we filed a complaint against Advanced Magnetics in the Massachusetts Superior Court for breach of contract, fraud, unjust enrichment, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in connection with the parties’ 2000 license agreement. The complaint seeks damages along with a request for specific performance requiring Advanced Magnetics to take all reasonable steps to secure FDA approval of COMBIDEX in compliance with the terms of the licensing agreement. In February 2006, Advanced Magnetics filed an answer to our complaint and asserted various counterclaims, including tortuous interference, defamation, consumer fraud and abuse of process. We believe these counterclaims have no merit and we plan to conduct a vigorous defense of these counterclaims. Sloan Kettering Institute for Cancer Research. In 1993, we began a development program with SKICR involving PSMA and our proprietary monoclonal antibody. In November 1996, we exercised an option for, and obtained, an exclusive worldwide license from the SKICR to its PSMA-related technology. The license will terminate on the date of expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents unless it is terminated earlier. Our intellectual property is difficult to protect. In addition to our key agreements referenced above, our business and competitive positions are also dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with the development of new products, we, like the rest of the biopharmaceutical industry, place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. We have filed patent applications for certain aspects of our technology for diagnostic and therapeutic products and/or the methods for their production and use. In addition, the protection afforded by a duly issued patent is limited in duration. With respect to our PROSTASCINT product, we rely or have relied primarily on United States patent numbers 5,162,504 (expiring October 28, 2010), 4,741,900 (expired June 9, 2004), 4,671,958 (expired June 9, 2004), and 4,867,973 (expired June 9, 2004). With respect to QUADRAMET, we rely primarily on United States patent numbers 4,898,724 (expiring March 28, 2011), 4,937,333 (expiring August 4, 2009), 4,897,254 (expiring January 30, 2007), 5,066,478 (expiring November 19, 2008), and 5,300,279 (expiring November 19, 2008), which were licensed to us by The Dow Chemical Company. In addition, we rely on United States patent number 5,495,042 (expiring November 4, 2013), which is assigned to us, and United States patent numbers 5,714,604 (expiring February 3, 2015) and 5,762,907 (expiring November 21, 2006). 38 Table of Contents The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our patents and patent applications may not protect our technologies and products because, among other things: • there is no guarantee that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors will provide a basis for a commercially viable product; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators will provide us with any competitive advantage; • there is no guarantee that any patents issued to us or our collaborators will not be challenged, circumvented or invalidated by third parties; and • there is no guarantee that any patents previously issued to others or issued in the future will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. In addition, patent law in the technology fields in which we operate is uncertain and still evolving. The degree of protection that may be afforded by any patents we are issued or license from others may not be sufficient to protect our commercial interests. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate our technologies, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented technologies developed by us. We could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend ourselves in patent suits by third parties or if we initiate such suits. In addition, if challenged by others in litigation, the patents we have been issued, which we have been assigned or we have licensed from others may be found invalid. It is also possible that our activities may infringe patents owned by others. Defense and prosecution of patent matters can be expensive and time-consuming and, regardless of whether the outcome is favorable to us, can result in the diversion of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. An adverse outcome could: • subject us to significant liability to third parties; • require us to cease any related research and development activities and product sales; or • require us to obtain licenses from third parties. Any licenses required under any of these third-party patents or proprietary rights may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, the laws of certain countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We cannot predict whether our or our competitors’ pending patent applications will result in the issuance of valid patents which may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with the manufacture and supply of our products. If we are to be successful, our products will have to be manufactured by contract manufacturers in compliance with regulatory requirements and at costs acceptable to us. If we are unable to successfully arrange for the manufacture of our products and product candidates, either because potential manufacturers are not cGMP compliant, are not available or charge excessive amounts, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be significantly and adversely affected. PROSTASCINT is currently manufactured at a current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, compliant manufacturing facility operated by Laureate Pharma, L.P. We entered into a development and manufacturing agreement with DSM Biologics Company B.V. in July 2000, which we intended would replace an earlier arrangement we had with Laureate with respect to PROSTASCINT. Our relationship with DSM was 39 Table of Contents subsequently terminated. Although we entered into another agreement with Laureate in September 2004 which provides for Laureate’s manufacture of PROSTASCINT for us, our failure to maintain a long term supply agreement on commercially reasonable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In October 2004, Laureate was acquired by Safeguard Scientifics, Inc. Laureate has continued to operate as a full service contract manufacturing organization and we have not experienced any disruption in Laureate’s performance of its obligations to produce PROSTASCINT. We have an agreement with BMS-MI to manufacture QUADRAMET for us. Both primary components of QUADRAMET, particularly Samarium-153 and EDTMP, are provided to BMS-MI by outside suppliers. Due to radioactive decay, Samarium-153 must be produced on a weekly basis. BMS-MI obtains its requirements for Samarium-153 from a sole supplier and EDTMP from another sole supplier. Alternative sources for these components may not be readily available, and any alternative supplier would have to be identified and qualified, subject to all applicable regulatory guidelines. If BMS-MI cannot obtain sufficient quantities of the components on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, it would be unable to manufacture QUADRAMET on a timely and cost-effective basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company, our contract manufacturers and testing laboratories are required to adhere to FDA regulations setting forth requirements for cGMP, and similar regulations in other countries, which include extensive testing, control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with cGMP, labeling and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections and market surveillance by state and federal agencies, including the FDA, and by comparable agencies in other countries. Failure of our contract vendors or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products, generally, are in the early stages of development and commercialization and we may never achieve the revenue goals set forth in our business plan. We began operations in 1980 and have since been engaged primarily in research directed toward the development, commercialization and marketing of products to improve the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and other diseases. In October 1996, we introduced for commercial use our PROSTASCINT imaging agent. In March 1997, we introduced for commercial use our QUADRAMET therapeutic product. In February 2006, we executed a binding letter of intent with Savient Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to negotiate a definitive agreement granting us exclusive marketing rights for SOLTAMOX (tamoxifen citrate) in the United States. SOLTAMOX, an oral liquid hormonal therapy, is approved for marketing in the United States. Consummation of the transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including satisfactory completion of due diligence by us and negotiation and execution of definitive licensing and supply agreements. In August, 2000, we entered into a license and marketing agreement with Advanced Magnetics for COMBIDEX, for all applications, and ferumoxytol (formerly Code 7228) for oncology applications only. We have exclusive United States marketing rights to COMBIDEX. On March 3, 2005, the FDA’s Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) voted 15 to 4 to not recommend approval of the proposed broad indication for COMBIDEX being sought by Advanced Magnetics. On March 24, 2005, Advanced Magnetics, Inc. informed us that Advanced Magnetics received an approvable letter from the FDA for COMBIDEX, subject to certain conditions. We cannot assure you, however, that Advanced Magnetics will obtain approval from the FDA for COMBIDEX on a timely basis, if at all. If Advanced Magnetics does not secure regulatory approval for COMBIDEX, we will not be permitted to sell and market COMBIDEX as we have anticipated and we will not realize any return on the significant amount of time and resources we have allocated to COMBIDEX. Ferumoxytol is being developed by Advanced Magnetics for use as an iron replacement therapeutic in chronic kidney disease patients and Advanced Magnetics has stated that no clinical applications are currently planned or contemplated for oncology applications. We cannot assure you that ferumoxytol will be developed for oncology applications. 40 Table of Contents In July 2004, as part of our continuing efforts to reduce non-strategic expenses, we initiated the closure of facilities at our AxCell Biosciences subsidiary. Research projects through academic, governmental and corporate collaborators will continue to be supported and additional applications for the intellectual property and technology at AxCell are being pursued. We may be unable to further develop or commercialize any of these products and technologies in the future. Further, our PSMA technologies are still in the early stages of development. All of our PSMA programs are either in preclinical or Phase I stages. Our business is therefore subject to the risks inherent in an early-stage biopharmaceutical business enterprise, such as the need: • to obtain sufficient capital to support the expenses of developing our technology and commercializing our products; • to ensure that our products are safe and effective; • to obtain regulatory approval for the use and sale of our products; • to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities and at a reasonable cost; • to develop a sufficient market for our products; and • to attract and retain qualified management, sales, technical and scientific staff. The problems frequently encountered using new technologies and operating in a competitive environment also may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to properly address these risks and attain our business objectives, our business could be significantly and adversely affected. All of our potential oncology products will be subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of diagnostic or therapeutic products based on new technologies. Product development for cancer treatment involves a high degree of risk. The product candidates we develop, pursue or offer may not prove to be safe and effective, may not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, may be precluded by proprietary rights of third parties or may not ultimately achieve market acceptance. These product candidates will require substantial additional investment, laboratory development, clinical testing and regulatory approvals prior to their commercialization. We may experience difficulties, such as the inability to agree with our collaborative partners on development, initiate clinical trials or receive timely regulatory approvals, that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products. Before we obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. The results from preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in large-scale, later-stage testing. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate safety and efficacy of a proposed product, and therefore, may not result in marketable products. A number of companies in our industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Clinical trials or marketing of any potential diagnostic or therapeutic products may expose us to liability claims for the use of these diagnostic or therapeutic products. We may not be able to maintain product liability insurance or sufficient coverage may not be available at a reasonable cost. In addition, internal development of diagnostic or therapeutic products will require significant investments in product development, marketing, sales and regulatory compliance resources. We will also have to establish or contract for the manufacture of products, including supplies of drugs used in clinical trials, under the cGMP of the FDA. We cannot assure you that product issues will not arise following successful clinical trials and FDA approval. 41 Table of Contents The rate of completion of clinical trials also depends on the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and delays, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop the products in our pipeline. If we are unable to develop and commercialize products on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. Competition in our field is intense and likely to increase. All of our products and product candidates are subject to significant competition from organizations that are pursuing technologies and products that are the same as or similar to our technology and products. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities and marketing capabilities. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from one or more of the following entities: • pharmaceutical companies; • biotechnology companies; • diagnostic companies; • medical device companies; • radiopharmaceutical distributors; • academic and research institutions; and • government agencies. QUADRAMET primarily competes with Strontium-89 chloride in the radiopharmaceutical pain palliation market. Strontium-89 chloride is manufactured and marketed either as Metastron, by GE HealthCare, or in a generic form by Bio-Nucleonics Pharma, Inc. GE HealthCare manufactures Metastron and sells the product through its wholly-owned network of radiopharmacies, direct to end-users and through other radiopharmacy distributors. The generic version is distributed directly by the manufacturer or is sold through radiopharmacy distributors such as Cardinal Health and AnazaoHealth (formerly Custom Care Pharmacy). Competitive imaging modalities to PROSTASCINT include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and position emission tomography (PET). Additionally, we face competition in the development of PSMA-related technology and products primarily from Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Medarex, Inc. Before we recover development expenses for our products and technologies, the products or technologies may become obsolete as a result of technological developments by others or us. Our products could also be made obsolete by new technologies, which are less expensive or more effective. We may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies and failure to do so could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for our products. We have established an internal sales force that is responsible for marketing and selling PROSTASCINT and QUADRAMET. Although we are continuing to expand our internal sales force, it still has limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities compared to those of many of our competitors. Effective August 1, 2003, we reacquired marketing rights to QUADRAMET from Berlex Laboratories, Inc. in North and Latin America, for an 42 Table of Contents upfront payment of $8.0 million and the obligation to pay royalties to Berlex on future sales of QUADRAMET. If our internal sales force is unable to successfully market QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to establish and maintain significant sales, marketing and distribution efforts within the United States, either internally or through arrangements with third parties, our business may be significantly and adversely affected. In locations outside of the United States, we have not established a selling presence. To the extent that our sales force, from time to time, markets and sells additional products, we cannot be certain that adequate resources or sales capacity will be available to effectively accomplish these tasks. Failure of third party payors to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products could limit market acceptance and affect pricing of our products and affect our revenues. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of favorable coverage and reimbursement by governmental healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as private health insurance plans. Each payor has its own process and standards for determining whether and, if so, to what extent it will cover and reimburse a particular product or service. Whether and to what extent a product may be deemed covered by a particular payor depends upon a number of factors, including the payor’s determination that the product is reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which it is administered according to accepted standards of medical practice, cost effective, not experimental or investigational, not found by the FDA to be less than effective, and not otherwise excluded from coverage by law, regulation, or contract. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly-approved products, and coverage may not be available or could be more limited than the purposes for which the product is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs, which include, for example, research, development, production, sales, and distribution costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, also may not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the product and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data. Net prices for products may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs, or other payors, or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own coverage policies and reimbursement rates, and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Even if successful, securing coverage at adequate reimbursement rates from government and third party payors can be a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products among other data and materials to each payor. Our inability to promptly obtain favorable coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from government-funded and private payors for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will continue to be affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to regulate expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect payments for therapeutic and diagnostic imaging agents such as our products. In addition, an emphasis on managed care increases possible pressure on the pricing of these products. While we cannot predict whether these legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, or the effects these proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business, the announcement of these proposals and the adoption of these proposals or efforts could affect our stock price or our business. Further, to the extent these proposals or efforts have an adverse effect on other companies that are our prospective corporate partners, our ability to establish necessary strategic alliances may be harmed. 43 Table of Contents If we are unable to comply with applicable governmental regulation we may not be able to continue our operations. Any products tested, manufactured or distributed by us or on our behalf pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by numerous regulatory authorities, including primarily the FDA. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing requirements or adoption of new requirements or policies. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could subject us to enforcement action, including product seizures, recalls, withdrawal, suspension, or revocation of approvals, restrictions on or injunctions against marketing our products based on our technology, and civil and criminal penalties. We may incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future or compliance with laws or regulations may create an unsustainable burden on our business. Numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities, principally the FDA, and similar regulatory agencies in other countries, regulate the preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacture and promotion of any compounds or agents we or our collaborative partners develop, and the manufacturing and marketing of any resulting drugs. The product development and regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive, uncertain and subject to delays. The regulatory risks we face also include the following: • any compound or agent, including generics, we or our collaborative partners develop must receive regulatory agency approval before it may be marketed as a drug in a particular country; • the regulatory process, which includes preclinical testing and clinical trials of each compound or agent in order to establish its safety and efficacy, varies from country to country, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources; • in all circumstances, approval of the use of previously unapproved radioisotopes in certain of our products requires approval of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and/or equivalent state regulatory agencies, which may be a lengthy process. A radioisotope is an unstable form of an element which undergoes radioactive decay, thereby emitting radiation which may be used, for example, to image or destroy harmful growths or tissue; • data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval; and • delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory agency policy during the period of product development and/or the period of review of any application for regulatory agency approval. These delays could adversely affect the marketing of any products we or our collaborative partners develop, impose costly procedures upon our activities, diminish any competitive advantages we or our collaborative partners may attain and adversely affect our ability to receive royalties. Regulatory agency approval for a product or agent may not be received and may entail limitations on the indicated uses that could limit the potential market for that product. For example, as disclosed in our press releases and periodic filings, we have exclusive United States marketing rights to COMBIDEX, an investigational functional molecular imaging agent consisting of iron oxide nanoparticles, which is currently being developed for use in conjunction with magnetic resonance imaging to aid in the differentiation of cancerous from normal lymph nodes, and is under review by the FDA. In June 2000, Advanced Magnetics received an approvable letter from the FDA with respect to COMBIDEX. An approvable letter is a written communication to an applicant from the FDA stating that the agency will approve the application or abbreviated application if specific and satisfactory additional information or material is submitted or specific conditions are met. An approvable letter does not constitute approval of any part of an application or abbreviated application and does not permit marketing of the drug that is the subject of the application or abbreviated application. In September 2004, Cytogen and Advanced Magnetics announced that Advanced Magnetics submitted a complete response to the approvable letter for COMBIDEX. On March 3, 2005, the FDA’s Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee, or ODAC, voted 15 to 4 to not recommend approval of the proposed broad indication for COMBIDEX being sought by Advanced Magnetics. On March 24, 2005, Advanced 44 Table of Contents Magnetics informed us that Advanced Magnetics received an approvable letter from the FDA for COMBIDEX, subject to certain conditions. If and when we obtain approval or clearance for our products, the marketing, manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event and other reporting, storage, advertising and promotion and record keeping related to our products would remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, its manufacture or its manufacturer may result in restrictions on that drug, manufacture or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. The Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act and the Public Health Service Act require: (i) that our products be manufactured in FDA registered facilities subject to inspection; and (ii) that we comply with cGMP, which imposes certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our manufacturing partners with respect to manufacturing and quality assurance activities. If we or our contract partners do not comply with cGMP or we do not comply with any of the FDA’s other postmarket requirements we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, product recalls, failure of the government to grant clearance or premarket approval for devices or premarket approval for drugs or biologics, suspension, revocation or withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, or what the impact of these changes, if any, may be. We depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of their services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of development or strategic objectives. Our success depends on our ability to retain key employees and to attract additional qualified employees. Competition for personnel is intense, and therefore we may not be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified employees in the future. On December 17, 2002, we entered into a letter agreement with Michael D. Becker in connection with Mr. Becker’s promotion to President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Becker’s annual base salary for 2006 is $312,000. Mr. Becker is also eligible to participate in our Cytogen Corporation Performance Bonus Plan, as and if approved by our Board of Directors, with a target bonus rate of 35% of base salary based upon performance objectives. Mr. Becker is also entitled to all existing Company benefits. In addition, Mr. Becker was granted options to purchase 200,000 shares of our common stock under our 1995 Stock Option Plan, of which options to purchase 150,000 shares are performance-based and will vest, if at all, upon the achievement of milestones as determined by our Board of Directors. Mr. Becker has subsequently received additional options to purchase shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the letter agreement, in the event we terminate Mr. Becker’s employment for reasons other than for cause, as defined therein, Mr. Becker shall be entitled to receive twelve months’ base pay and continuation of benefits under COBRA, and a pro rata portion of any incentive benefits earned through the date of termination. We do not carry key person life insurance policies and we do not typically enter into long-term arrangements with our key personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel in key positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected unless qualified replacements can be found. Our business exposes us to product liability claims that may exceed our financial resources, including our insurance coverage, and may lead to the curtailment or termination of our operations. Our business is subject to product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products and product liability claims may be asserted against us, our collaborators or our licensees. While we 45 Table of Contents currently maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $10.0 million, such coverage may not be adequate to protect us against future product liability claims. In addition, product liability insurance may not be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we have not had a history of claims payments that have exceeded our insurance coverage or available financial resources, if liability claims against us exceed our financial resources or coverage amounts, we may have to curtail or terminate our operations. In addition, while we currently maintain directors and officers liability insurance in the amount of $25.0 million and an additional $5.0 million of personal liability coverage for directors and officers, such coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or be adequate to cover any claims that we may be required to satisfy in the future. Our insurance coverage is subject to industry standard and certain other limitations. Our security measures may not protect our unpatented proprietary technology. We also rely upon trade secret protection for some of our confidential and proprietary information that is not subject matter for which patent protection is available. To help protect our rights, we require all employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements that require disclosure, and in most cases, assignment to us, of their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions, and that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside Cytogen or our subsidiaries. Although we are unaware of any unauthorized use or disclosure of our unpatented proprietary technology to date, these agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information or prevent such unauthorized use or disclosure. We may not be able to implement AxCell’s business plan. In September 2002, we began the restructuring of our subsidiary, AxCell Biosciences Corporation, in an effort to reduce expenses and position Cytogen for stronger long-term growth in oncology. In July 2004, as part of our continuing efforts to reduce non-strategic expenses, we initiated the closure of facilities at our AxCell Biosciences subsidiary. Research projects through academic, governmental and corporate collaborators will continue to be supported and additional applications for the intellectual property and technology at AxCell are being pursued. We may be unable to further develop or commercialize any of AxCell’s technologies in the future. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $30.3 million at December 31, 2005. We expect that our existing capital resources should be adequate to fund our operations and commitments into 2007. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since our inception and have expended, and expect to continue to expend in the future, substantial funds based upon the: • success of our product commercialization efforts; • success of any future acquisitions of complementary products and technologies we may make; • magnitude, scope and results of our product development and research and development efforts; • progress of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • progress toward regulatory approval for our products; • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • competing technological and market developments; and • expansion of strategic alliances for the sale, marketing and distribution of our products. 46 Table of Contents Our business or operations may change in a manner that would consume available resources more rapidly than anticipated. We expect that we will have additional requirements for debt or equity capital, irrespective of whether and when we reach profitability, for further product development costs, product and technology acquisition costs and working capital. To the extent that our currently available funds and revenues are insufficient to meet current or planned operating requirements, we will be required to obtain additional funds through equity or debt financing, strategic alliances with corporate partners and others, or through other sources. These financial sources may not be available when we need them or they may be available, but on terms that are not commercially acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, further scale back or eliminate certain aspects of our operations or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates, products or potential markets. If adequate funds are not available, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our capital raising efforts may dilute stockholder interests. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debentures, such issuance will result in ownership dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could have rights superior to those of our existing stockholders. The extent of such dilution will vary based upon the amount of capital raised. We may need to raise funds other than through the issuance of equity securities. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or product candidates or to grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If we relinquish rights or grant licenses on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to develop or market products in a manner that is profitable to us. Our PSMA product development program is novel and, consequently, inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of product candidates based on new technologies, including our PSMA technology. These risks include the possibility that: • the technologies we use will not be effective; • our product candidates will be unsafe; • our product candidates will fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals; • the product candidates will be hard to manufacture on a large scale or will be uneconomical to market; and • we will not successfully overcome technological challenges presented by our potential new products. Our other research and development programs involve similarly novel approaches to human therapeutics. Consequently, there is no precedent for the successful commercialization of therapeutic products based on our PSMA technologies. If we fail to develop such products, our business financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and veterans’ health programs. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. 47 Table of Contents However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The healthcare fraud and abuse laws to which we are subject include the following, among others: Federal and State Anti-Kickback Laws and Safe Harbor Provisions. The federal anti-kickback law makes it a felony to knowingly and willfully offer, or pay remuneration “to induce” a person to refer an individual or to recommend or arrange for the purchase, lease or ordering of any item or service for which payment may be made under the Medicare or state healthcare programs. The anti-kickback prohibitions apply regardless of whether the remuneration is provided directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind. Interpretations of the law have been very broad. Under current law, courts and federal regulatory authorities have stated that this law is violated if even one purpose, as opposed to the sole or primary purpose, of the arrangement is to induce referrals. Violations of the anti-kickback law carry potentially severe penalties including imprisonment of up to five years, criminal fines, civil money penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or OIG, has published “safe harbors” that exempt some arrangements from enforcement action under the anti-kickback statute. These statutory and regulatory safe harbors protect various bona fide employment relationships, personal service arrangements, certain discount arrangements, among other things, provided that certain conditions set forth in the statute and regulations are satisfied. The safe harbor regulations, however, do not comprehensively describe all lawful arrangements, and the failure of an arrangement to satisfy all of the requirements of a particular safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement is unlawful. Failure to comply with the safe harbor provisions, however, may mean that the arrangement will be subject to scrutiny by the OIG. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions. Some of these state laws lack specific “safe harbors” that may be available under federal law. Sanctions under these state anti-kickback laws may include civil money penalties, license suspension or revocation, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid, and criminal fines or imprisonment. We believe that our contracts and arrangements are not in violation of applicable anti-kickback or related laws. We cannot assure you, however, that these laws will ultimately be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices. False Claims Acts. We are subject to state and federal laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. The Federal Civil False Claims Act imposes civil liability on individuals or entities that submit, or “cause” to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the Civil False Claims Act may result in treble damages, civil monetary penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we could be subject to criminal penalties under a variety of federal statutes to the extent that we knowingly violate legal requirements under federal health programs or otherwise present or cause the presentation of false or fraudulent claims or documentation to the government. In addition, the OIG may impose extensive and costly corporate integrity requirements upon entities and individuals 48 Table of Contents subject to a false claims judgment or settlement. These requirements may include the creation of a formal compliance program, the appointment of an independent review organization, and the imposition of annual reporting requirements and audits conducted by an independent review organization to monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement and relevant laws and regulations. The Federal Civil False Claims Act also allows a private individual to bring a “qui tam” suit on behalf of the government for violations of the Civil False Claims Act, and if successful, the “qui tam” relator shares in the government’s recovery. A qui tam suit may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. Recently, the number of qui tam suits brought in the healthcare industry has increased dramatically. In addition, several states have enacted laws modeled after the Federal Civil False Claims Act. Civil Monetary Penalties. The Civil Monetary Penalties Statute states that civil penalties ranging between $10,000 and $50,000 per claim or act may be imposed on any person or entity that knowingly submits, or causes the submission of, improperly filed claims for federal health benefits, or makes payments to induce a beneficiary or provider to reduce or limit the use of healthcare services or to use a particular provider or supplier. Civil monetary penalties may be imposed for violations of the anti-kickback statute and for the failure to return known overpayments, among other things. Prohibition on Employing or Contracting with Excluded Providers. The Social Security Act and federal regulations state that individuals or entities that have been convicted of a criminal offense related to the delivery of an item or service under the Medicare or Medicaid programs or that have been convicted, under state or federal law, of a criminal offense relating to neglect or abuse of residents in connection with the delivery of a healthcare item or service cannot participate in any federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. HIPAA created new healthcare related crimes, and granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to impose certain civil penalties. Particularly, the Secretary may now exclude from Medicare any individual with a direct or indirect ownership interest in an entity convicted of healthcare fraud or excluded from the program. Under HIPAA and other healthcare laws, it is a crime to knowingly and willfully commit a healthcare fraud, and knowingly and willfully falsify, or conceal material information or make any materially false or fraudulent statements in connection with claims and payment for healthcare services by a healthcare benefit plan. HIPAA also created new programs to control fraud and abuse, and requires new investigations, audits and inspections. We believe that our operations materially comply with applicable regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you of the outcome of any inquiry audit or investigation undertaken by HHS, OIG or DOJ. If we are ever found to have engaged in improper practices, we could be subjected to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief, and suspension or exclusion of the entity or individuals from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. Patient Information and Privacy. HIPAA also mandates, among other things, the establishment of regulatory standards addressing the electronic exchange of health information, standards for the privacy and security of health information maintained or exchanged electronically, and standards for assigning unique health identifiers to healthcare providers. Sanctions for failure to comply with HIPAA standards include civil and criminal penalties. The Security Standards require us to implement certain security measures to protect certain individually identifiable health information, called protected health information, or PHI, in electronic format. The Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Information restrict use and disclosure of PHI unless patient authorization for such disclosures are obtained. These Privacy Standards not only require our compliance with standards restricting the use and disclosure of PHI, but also require us to obtain satisfactory assurances that any business associate of ours who has access to our PHI similarly will safeguard such PHI. We have evaluated these rules to determine the effects of the rules on our business, and we believe that we have taken the appropriate steps to ensure that we will comply with these standards in all material respects by their respective compliance deadlines. 49 Table of Contents Our business involves environmental risks that may result in liability. We are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign government regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic, infectious or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be liable for damages, penalties, or other forms of censure and our business could be significantly and adversely affected. We currently do not carry insurance for contamination or injury resulting from the use of such materials. PROSTASCINT and QUADRAMET utilize radioactive materials. PROSTASCINT is not manufactured or shipped as a radioactive material because the radioactive component is not added until the product has arrived at its final destination (a radiopharmacy). Laureate Pharma, our contract manufacturer of PROSTASCINT, holds a radioactive materials license because such license is required for certain release and stability tests of the product. QUADRAMET, however, is manufactured and shipped as radioactive, and therefore, the manufacturing and distribution of this product must comply with regulations promulgated by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. BMS-MI manufacturers and distributes QUADRAMET, and is, therefore, subject to these regulations. We have been and, in the future, may be subject to patent litigation. On March 17, 2000, we were served with a complaint filed against us in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey by M. David Goldenberg and Immunomedics, Inc. The litigation claimed that our PROSTASCINT product infringes a patent purportedly owned by Goldenberg and licensed to Immunomedics. We believe that PROSTASCINT did not infringe this patent, and that the patent was invalid and unenforceable. In June 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the district court’s grant of summary judgment of no literal infringement. Regarding infringement under the doctrine of equivalents, however, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit disagreed with the district court’s conclusion that there was no issue of material fact and reversed the district court’s grant of summary judgment on this point and remanded for further proceedings on the issue. In September 2004, we settled the patent infringement suit for an undisclosed payment, without any admission of fault or liability. We cannot give any assurance that we will not become subject to additional patent litigation in the future, which could result in material expenditures to us. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to fluctuate for various reasons, including, but not limited to, announcements concerning our competitors or us regarding: • results of clinical trials; • technological innovations or new commercial products; • changes in governmental regulation or the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; • changes in earnings; • changes in health care policies and practices; • developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights; • litigation or public concern as to safety of the our potential products; and • changes in general market conditions. 50 Table of Contents These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. These fluctuations may or may not be based upon any of our business or operating results. Our common stock may experience similar or even more dramatic price and volume fluctuations which may continue indefinitely. We have adopted various anti-takeover provisions which may affect the market price of our common stock and prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management team. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the holders of common stock, to issue from time to time, up to 5,400,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series, and to fix the rights and preferences of the preferred stock. We have implemented a stockholder rights plan by which one preferred stock purchase right is attached to each share of common stock, as a means to deter coercive takeover tactics and to prevent an acquirer from gaining control of us without some mechanism to secure a fair price for all of our stockholders if an acquisition was completed. These rights will be exercisable if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock and can be made exercisable by action of our Board of Directors if a person or group commences a tender offer which would result in such person or group beneficially owning 20% or more of our common stock. Each right will entitle the holder to buy one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of our junior participating preferred stock for $20. If any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our common stock (with certain limited exceptions), then each right not owned by the 20% stockholder will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right’s then current exercise price, common shares having a market value of twice the exercise price. In addition, if after any person has become a 20% stockholder, we are involved in a merger or other business combination transaction with another person, each right will entitle its holder (other than the 20% stockholder) to purchase, at the right’s then current exercise price, common shares of the acquiring company having a value of twice the right’s then current exercise price. We are subject to provisions of Delaware corporate law which, subject to certain exceptions, will prohibit us from engaging in any “business combination” with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years following the date that the person came to own 15% or more of our common stock unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions of the stockholder rights plan, our certificate of incorporation, and of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Cytogen, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price, and the voting and other rights of the holders, of our common stock. In addition, these provisions make it more difficult to replace or remove our current management team in the event our stockholders believe this would be in the best interest of the Company and our stockholders. The liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from The Nasdaq National Market. In the event that we are unable to maintain compliance with all relevant Nasdaq Listing Standards, our securities may be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq National Market. If such delisting occurs, the market price and market liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. Such listing standards include, among other things, requirements related to the market value of our listed securities and publicly-held shares, and the minimum bid price for such shares. The minimum bid requirement is $1.00 per share. On March 1, 2006, the closing sale price of our common stock as reported by Nasdaq was $3.37. If faced with delisting, we may submit an application to transfer the listing of our common stock to the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Alternatively, if our common stock is delisted by Nasdaq, our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board maintained by Nasdaq, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to a rule promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect the liquidity of our common stock. 51 Table of Contents Delisting from Nasdaq would make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. It would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Further, if we are delisted, we would also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. These requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of our shareholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market. A large number of our shares are eligible for future sale which may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. A large number of shares of our common stock are already outstanding, issuable upon exercise of options and warrants, or the achievement of certain milestones under previously completed acquisitions and may be eligible for resale. This availability of a significant number of additional shares of our common stock for future sale and issuance could depress the price of our common stock. At December 31, 2005, stock options to purchase 1,134,296 shares of our common stock were outstanding and the weighted-average exercise price per share of these options was $9.18. At December 31, 2005, warrants to purchase 3,803,086 shares of our common stock were outstanding and the weighted-average exercise price per share of these warrants was $8.16. The following table summarizes information about outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock at December 31, 2005: Exercise Price Outstanding Warrants Aggregate Exercise Price $4.25 1,118,868 $ 4,755,189 $5.65 70,000 $ 395,500 $6.00 776,096 $ 4,656,576 $6.91 315,790 $ 2,182,108 $10.97 250,000 $ 2,742,500 $12.80 1,272,332 $ 16,285,850 The warrants exercisable at $10.97 per share and $12.80 per share become automatically exercised, in full, if our common stock trades for 30 consecutive trading days at 130% of the respective exercise prices. Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our shares of common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless the value of our shares appreciates and they sell them. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities and intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless the value of our shares appreciates and they sell them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 52 Table of Contents 