Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in your decision as to whether or not to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. We will need to raise additional capital which may not be available or only available on less favorable terms. Our operations to date have required significant cash expenditures. Our cash and cash equivalents were $8.9 million as of December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2007, net cash used in operating activities was $31.1 million. We expect that our existing capital resources at December 31, 2007, should be adequate to fund our operations and commitments 37 Table of Contents into the second quarter of 2008. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since our inception, and have expended, and expect to continue to expend in the future, substantial funds to implement our planned product development efforts, including acquisition of complementary clinical stage and marketed products, research and development, clinical studies and regulatory activities, and to further our marketing and sales programs. We expect that our existing capital resources at December 31, 2007, should be adequate to fund our operations and commitments into the second quarter of 2008. However, we cannot assure you that our business or operations will not change in a manner that would consume available resources more rapidly than anticipated. We expect that we will have additional requirements for debt or equity capital, irrespective of whether and when we reach profitability, for further product development costs, product and technology acquisition costs, and working capital. If we are unable to consummate the merger with EUSA, we will need to raise additional capital in the second quarter of 2008. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we will be required to reduce our capital expenditures, scale back our sales and marketing or research and development plans, reduce our workforce, license to others products or technologies we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves, sell certain assets, cease operations or declare bankruptcy. There can be no assurance that we can obtain equity financing, if at all, on terms acceptable to us. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on numerous factors, including: (i) the successful commercialization of our products; (ii) the costs associated with the acquisition of complementary clinical stage and marketed products; (iii) progress in our product development efforts and the magnitude and scope of such efforts; (iv) progress with clinical trials; (v) progress with regulatory affairs activities; (vi) the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; (vii) competing technological and market developments; and (viii) the expansion of strategic alliances for the sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of our products. To the extent that the currently available funds and revenues are insufficient to meet current or planned operating requirements, we will be required to obtain additional funds through equity or debt financing, strategic alliances with corporate partners and others, or through other sources. We cannot assure you that the financial sources described above will be available when needed or at terms commercially acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, further scale back or eliminate certain aspects of our operations or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, product candidates, products or potential markets. If adequate funds are not available, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We have a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit and expect to incur losses in the future. Given the high level of expenditures associated with our business and our inability to generate revenues sufficient to cover such expenditures, we have had a history of operating losses since our inception. We had net losses of $25.7 million, $15.1 million and $26.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $453.4 million as of December 31, 2007. We expect that our existing capital resources at December 31, 2007, should be adequate to fund our operations and commitments into the second quarter of 2008. 38 Table of Contents We will need to raise additional capital before the available resources at December 31, 2007 are consumed, which is expected to be in the second quarter of 2008. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we could be required to reduce our capital expenditures, scale back our sales and marketing or research and development plans, reduce our workforce, license to others products or technologies we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves, sell certain assets, cease operations or declare bankruptcy. There can be no assurance that we can obtain equity financing, if at all, on terms acceptable to us. In order to develop and commercialize our technologies and launch and expand our products, we expect to incur significant increases in our expenses over the next several years. As a result, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to become profitable. To date, we have taken affirmative steps to address our trend of operating losses. Such steps include, among other things: Ÿ undergoing steps to realign and implement our focus as a product-driven biopharmaceutical company; Ÿ establishing and maintaining our in-house specialty sales force; and Ÿ enhancing our marketed product portfolio through marketing alliances and strategic arrangements. Although we have taken these affirmative steps, we may never be able to successfully implement them, and our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this section entitled, "Risk Factors". As a result, we may never be able to generate or sustain significant additional revenue or achieve profitability. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations as a going concern. We were incorporated in 1980, and do not have a history of earnings. As a result, our registered independent accountants in their audit report have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations are dependent on our ability to complete equity or debt formation activities or to generate profitable operations. Such capital formation activities may not be available or may not be available on reasonable terms. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment in the Company. 39 Table of Contents Our efforts to enhance the value of the Company for our stockholders may not be successful. There is no guarantee that our stockholders will realize greater value for, or preserve existing value of, their shares of the Company. On November 5, 2007, we announced that we engaged an investment banking firm to assist us in identifying and evaluating strategic alternatives intended to enhance the future growth potential of our pipeline and maximize stockholder value. On March 11, 2008, the Company announced that it has entered into a definitive merger agreement with EUSA Pharma Inc., pursuant to which all outstanding shares of the Company will be converted into $0.62 per share in cash, which represents a premium of approximately 35% over the closing price of $0.46 on March 10, 2008. EUSA Pharma is a transatlantic specialty pharmaceutical company focused on oncology, pain control and critical care. Closing of the merger is conditioned on, among other things, the receipt of approval by holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Cytogen’s common stock, and the parties entrance into a sublicense agreement for the European and Asian rights to the Company’s Caphosol product. It is also subject to certain regulatory review and other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2008. Upon closing of the merger, EUSA Pharma intends to apply to delist all of Cytogen’s issued shares from the NASDAQ Stock Market. We depend on sales of QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT for substantially all of our near-term revenues. We expect QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT to account for substantially all of our product revenues in the near future. For the year ended December 31, 2007, revenues from QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT accounted for approximately 46% and 48%, respectively, of our product revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, revenues from QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT accounted for approximately 47% and 53%, respectively, of our product revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, revenues from QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT accounted for approximately 53% and 47%, respectively, of our product revenues. If QUADRAMET or PROSTASCINT do not achieve broader market acceptance, either because we fail to effectively market such products or our competitors introduce competing products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. We will depend on market acceptance of CAPHOSOL for future revenues. On October 11, 2006, we entered into a license agreement with InPharma granting us exclusive marketing rights for CAPHOSOL in North America. We introduced CAPHOSOL late in the first quarter of 2007. Through December 31, 2007, we have recognized $1.3 million of revenues from CAPHOSOL. Our future growth and success will depend on market acceptance of CAPHOSOL by healthcare providers, third-party payors and patients. Market acceptance will depend, in part, on our ability to demonstrate to these parties the effectiveness of this product. Sales of this product will also depend on the availability of favorable coverage and reimbursement by governmental healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as private health insurance plans. If CAPHOSOL does not achieve market acceptance, either 40 Table of Contents because we fail to effectively market such product or our competitors introduce competing products, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. A small number of customers account for the majority of our sales, and the loss of one of them, or changes in their purchasing patterns, could result in reduced sales, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. We sell our products to a small number of radiopharmacy networks. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we received 63% of our total revenues from three customers, as follows: 43% from Cardinal Health; 14% from Mallinckrodt Inc.; and 6% from Anazao Health Corporation. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we received 64% of our total revenues from three customers, as follows: 41% from Cardinal Health; 14% from Mallinckrodt Inc.; and 9% from GE Healthcare. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we received 67% of our total revenues from three customers, as follows: 47% from Cardinal Health; 11% from Mallinckrodt Inc.; and 9% from GE Healthcare. The small number of radiopharmacies, consolidation in this industry or financial difficulties of these radiopharmacies could result in the combination or elimination of customers for our products. We anticipate that our results of operations in any given period will continue to depend to a significant extent upon sales to a small number of customers. As a result of this customer concentration, our revenues from quarter to quarter and business, financial condition and results of operations may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the failure of customer orders to materialize as and when anticipated. None of our customers have entered into an agreement requiring on-going minimum purchases from us. We cannot assure you that our principal customers will continue to purchase products from us at current levels, if at all. The loss of one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on acceptance of our products by the medical community for the continuation of our revenues. Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend on the acceptance of our marketed products as safe, effective and cost-efficient alternatives to other available treatment and diagnostic protocols by the medical community, including: Ÿ health care providers, such as hospitals and physicians; and Ÿ third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations. With respect to PROSTASCINT, our customers, including technologists and physicians, must successfully complete our Partners in Excellence, or PIE, Program, a proprietary training program designed to promote the correct acquisition and interpretation of PROSTASCINT images. This product is technique-dependent and requires a learning commitment by technologists and physicians and their acceptance of this product as part of their treatment 41 Table of Contents practices. With respect to QUADRAMET, we believe that challenges we may encounter in generating market acceptance for this product include the need to further educate patients and physicians about QUADRAMET's properties, approved uses and how QUADRAMET may be differentiated from other radiopharmaceuticals and used in combination with other treatments for the palliation of pain due to metastatic bone disease, such as analgesics, opioids, bisphosphonates, and chemotherapeutics. If we are unable to educate our existing and future customers about PROSTASCINT and QUADRAMET, our revenues may decrease. If PROSTASCINT or QUADRAMET do not achieve broader market acceptance, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. Generating market acceptance and sales of our products has proven difficult. We introduced ONCOSCINT® CR/OV in December 1992, PROSTASCINT in October 1996, QUADRAMET in March 1997, BRACHYSEED™ in February 2001, NMP22 BLADDERCHEK® in November 2002, SOLTAMOX in August 2006 and CAPHOSOL in March 2007. Revenues for PROSTASCINT grew from $55,000 in 1996 to $9.6 million in 2007. Royalties and sales of QUADRAMET grew from $3.3 million in 1997 to $9.3 million in 2007. We discontinued selling ONCOSCINT CR/OV in December 2002, brachytherapy products in January 2003, NMP22 BLADDERCHEK in December 2004 and SOLTAMOX in January 2008. Currently, substantially all of our revenues are derived from sales of PROSTASCINT, QUADRAMET and CAPHOSOL. There are risks associated with the manufacture and supply of our products. If we are to be successful, our products will have to be manufactured by contract manufacturers in compliance with regulatory requirements and at costs acceptable to us. If we are unable to successfully arrange for the manufacture of our products and product candidates, either because potential manufacturers are not a current Good Manufacturing Practices or cGMP compliant, are not available or charge excessive amounts, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be significantly and adversely affected. PROSTASCINT is currently manufactured at cGMP compliant manufacturing facility operated by Laureate Pharma, L.P. Although we entered into another agreement with Laureate in September 2006 which provides for Laureate's manufacture of PROSTASCINT for us, our failure to maintain a long term supply agreement on commercially reasonable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2007, the Company recorded a charge of $765,000 for costs related to a failed ProstaScint batch. We cannot be certain that future PROSTASCINT batches produced by Laureate will not have similar problems, which will then result in products not available for commercial purposes. We have an agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Inc., or BMSMI, to manufacture QUADRAMET for us. Both primary components of QUADRAMET, Samarium-153 and EDTMP, are provided to BMSMI by outside suppliers. Due to radioactive decay, Samarium-153 must be produced on a weekly basis. BMSMI obtains its requirements for Samarium-153 from a sole supplier and EDTMP from another sole supplier. Alternative sources for these components may not be readily available, and any alternative supplier would have to be 42 Table of Contents identified and qualified, subject to all applicable regulatory guidelines. If BMSMI cannot obtain sufficient quantities of the components on commercially reasonable terms, or in a timely manner, it would be unable to manufacture QUADRAMET on a timely and cost-effective basis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In January 2008, BMSMI was acquired by Avista Capital Partners. Since our agreement requires two years prior written notice to terminate and we have not received any termination notice from BMSMI, we do not expect any disruption in BMSMI’s performance of its obligations under our agreement for 2008 and 2009. We currently have no alternative manufacturer or supplier for QUADRAMET and any of its components. We have a manufacturing agreement with Holopack to manufacture CAPHOSOL for us. The agreement has a term of two years and automatically renews for an additional year. Such agreement is terminable by Holopack or us on three months notice prior to the end of each term period. Our failure to maintain a long term supply agreement for CAPHOSOL on commercially reasonable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We, along with our contract manufacturers and testing laboratories are required to adhere to FDA regulations setting forth requirements for cGMP, and similar regulations in other countries, which include extensive testing, control and documentation requirements. Ongoing compliance with cGMP, labeling and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections and market surveillance by state and federal agencies, including the FDA, and by comparable agencies in other countries. Failure of our contract vendors or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on our collaborative partners. Our success depends largely upon the success and financial stability of our collaborative partners. We have entered into the following agreements for the development, sale, marketing, distribution and manufacture of our products, product candidates and technologies: · a license agreement with The Dow Chemical Company relating to the QUADRAMET technology; · a manufacturing and supply agreement for the manufacture of QUADRAMET with BMSMI; · a manufacturing agreement for the manufacture of PROSTASCINT with Laureate Pharma, L.P.; 43 Table of Contents · a distribution services agreement with Cardinal Health 105, Inc. (formerly CORD Logistics, Inc.) for PROSTASCINT; · a license agreement with The Dow Chemical Company relating to Dow's proprietary MeO-DOTA bifunctional chelant technology for use with our CYT-500 program; · a purchase and supply agreement with OTN for the distribution of CAPHOSOL; · a license agreement with InPharma AS for the marketing of CAPHOSOL; and · a manufacturing agreement with Holopack for the manufacturing and supply of CAPHOSOL. Because our collaborative partners are responsible for certain manufacturing and distribution activities, among others, these activities are outside our direct control, and we rely on our partners to perform their obligations. In the event that our collaborative partners are entitled to enter into third party arrangements that may economically disadvantage us, or do not perform their obligations as expected under our agreements, our products may not be commercially successful. As a result, any success may be delayed and new product development could be inhibited with the result that our business, financial condition and results of operation could be significantly and adversely affected. If our collaborative agreements expire or are terminated and we cannot renew or replace them on commercially reasonable terms, our business and financial results may suffer. If the agreements described above expire or are terminated, we may not be able to find suitable alternatives to them on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, if at all. The loss of the right to use these technologies that we have licensed or the loss of any services provided to us under these agreements would significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the agreements described above, we currently depend on the following agreements for our present and future operating results: Agreement with Dr. Horosziewicz regarding PROSTASCINT. In 1989, we entered into an agreement with Dr. Julius S. Horosziewicz. Under this agreement, we were assigned certain rights to the patent claiming the 7E11 antibody, as well as additional patents relating to the PROSTASCINT product and commercialization rights thereto. Under this agreement, we have made, and may continue to make, certain payments to Dr. Horosziewicz, which obligation will remain in effect until the expiration of the last related patent on October 28, 2010. On November 7, 2007, Eastern Virginia Medical School (“EVMS”) filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. In the complaint, EVMS purports that the Company’s PROSTASCINT product infringes a patent owned by EVMS and previously licensed to the Company under an agreement between EVMS and the Company entered into in 1991. In February 2008, the parties executed a non-binding 44 Table of Contents term sheet setting forth mutually acceptable terms for settlement of the pending litigation between the parties. Pursuant to the term sheet, Cytogen and EVMS are currently working toward finalizing and executing a settlement agreement, as well as a new license agreement. Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research. In 1993, we began a development program with SKICR involving PSMA and our proprietary monoclonal antibody. In November 1996, we exercised an option for, and obtained, an exclusive worldwide license from the SKICR to its PSMA-related technology. The license will terminate on the date of expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents unless it is terminated earlier. Our business depends upon our patents and proprietary rights and the enforcement of these rights. Our failure to obtain and maintain patent protection may increase competition and reduce demand for our technology. As a result of the substantial length of time and expense associated with developing products and bringing them to the marketplace in the biotechnology and agricultural industries, obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for technologies, products and processes is of vital importance. Our success will depend in part on several factors, including, without limitation: Ÿ our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies and processes; Ÿ our ability to preserve our trade secrets; and Ÿ our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties both in the United States and in foreign countries. Although we believe that our technology is unique and will not violate or infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third party, we cannot assure you that these claims will not be made or if made, could be successfully defended against. If we do not obtain and maintain patent protection, we may face increased competition in the United States and internationally, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Since patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific and patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we were the first creator of the inventions covered by our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions. In addition, among other things, we cannot assure you that: Ÿ our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; Ÿ any patents issued or licensed to us will be free from challenge and that if challenged, would be held to be valid; 45 Table of Contents Ÿ any patents issued or licensed to us will provide commercially significant protection for our technology, products and processes; Ÿ other companies will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information which is not covered by our patent rights; Ÿ other companies will not obtain access to our know-how; Ÿ other companies will not be granted patents that may prevent the commercialization of our technology; or Ÿ we will not require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties to third parties for the use of their intellectual property in order to enable us to conduct our business. Our competitors may allege that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, forcing us to incur substantial costs and expenses in resulting litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Patent law is still evolving relative to the scope and enforceability of claims in the fields in which we operate. We are like most biotechnology companies in that our patent protection is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which legal principles are not yet firmly established. In addition, if issued, our patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, and the courts have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. We could become involved in infringement actions to enforce and/or protect our patents. Regardless of the outcome, patent litigation is expensive and time consuming and would distract our management from other activities. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we could because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any patent litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If our technology infringes the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or damages. If any relevant claims of third-party patents that are adverse to us are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from commercializing our technology or could be required to obtain licenses from the owners of such patents. We cannot assure you that such licenses would be available or, if available, would be on acceptable terms. Some licenses may be non-exclusive 46 Table of Contents and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. In addition, if any parties successfully claim that the creation or use of our technology infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to pay damages, including treble damages. On November 7, 2007, Eastern Virginia Medical School (“EVMS”) filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. In the complaint, EVMS purports that the Company’s PROSTASCINT product infringes a patent owned by EVMS and previously licensed to the Company under an agreement between EVMS and the Company entered into in 1991. In February 2008, the parties executed a non-binding term sheet setting forth mutually acceptable terms for settlement of the pending litigation between the parties. Pursuant to the term sheet, Cytogen and EVMS are currently working toward finalizing and executing a settlement agreement, as well as a new license agreement. Certain of our products are in the early stages of development and commercialization, and we may never achieve the revenue goals set forth in our business plan. We began operations in 1980 and have since been engaged primarily in research directed toward the development, commercialization and marketing of products to improve the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. In April 2006, we executed a distribution agreement with Savient granting us exclusive marketing rights for SOLTAMOX in the United States. We introduced SOLTAMOX in the United States in the second half of 2006 and have only recognized a nominal amount in revenues from SOLTAMOX. Due to limited end-user demand, uncertainty regarding future market penetration, the decision in the third quarter of 2007 to reallocate sales and marketing resources to other products, and inventory dating issues, we assessed the recoverability of the carrying amount of our SOLTAMOX license and determined an impairment existed. Accordingly, during the third quarter of 2007, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $1.8 million to write-down this asset to zero. Effective January 1, 2008, we ceased selling and marketing SOLTAMOX. In October 2006, we entered into a license agreement with InPharma granting us exclusive marketing rights for CAPHOSOL in North America. We introduced CAPHOSOL late in the first quarter of 2007. In May 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration cleared an Investigational New Drug application for CYT-500, our lead therapeutic candidate targeting PSMA. In February 2007, we announced the initiation of the first human clinical study of CYT-500. CYT-500 uses the same monoclonal antibody from our PROSTASCINT molecular imaging agent, but is linked through a higher affinity linker than is used for PROSTASCINT to a therapeutic as opposed to an imaging radionuclide. This PSMA technology is still in the early stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to commercialize this product. 47 Table of Contents Our business is therefore subject to the risks inherent in an early-stage biopharmaceutical business enterprise, such as the need: · to obtain sufficient capital to support the expenses of developing our technology and commercializing our products; · to ensure that our products are safe and effective; · to obtain regulatory approval for the use and sale of our products; · to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities and at a reasonable cost; · to develop a sufficient market for our products; and · to attract and retain qualified management, sales, technical and scientific staff. The problems frequently encountered using new technologies and operating in a competitive environment also may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to properly address these risks and attain our business objectives, our business could be significantly and adversely affected. All of our potential oncology products will be subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of diagnostic or therapeutic products based on new technologies. Product development for cancer treatment involves a high degree of risk. The product candidates we develop, pursue or offer may not prove to be safe and effective, may not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, may be precluded by proprietary rights of third parties or may not ultimately achieve market acceptance. These product candidates will require substantial additional investment, laboratory development, clinical testing and regulatory approvals prior to their commercialization. We may experience difficulties, such as the inability to agree with our collaborative partners on development, initiate clinical trials or receive timely regulatory approvals, that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products. Before we obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. The results from preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in large-scale, later-stage testing. Our clinical trials may not demonstrate safety and efficacy of a proposed product, and therefore, may not result in marketable products. A number of companies in our industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Clinical trials or marketing of any potential diagnostic or therapeutic products may expose us to liability claims for the use of these diagnostic or therapeutic products. We may not be able to maintain product liability insurance or sufficient coverage may not be available at a reasonable cost. In addition, internal development of diagnostic or therapeutic products will require significant investments in product development, marketing, sales and 48 Table of Contents regulatory compliance resources. We will also have to establish or contract for the manufacture of products, including supplies of drugs used in clinical trials, under the cGMP of the FDA. We cannot assure you that product issues will not arise following successful clinical trials and FDA approval. The rate of completion of clinical trials also depends on the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and delays, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop the products in our pipeline. If we are unable to develop and commercialize products on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. Competition in our field is intense and likely to increase. All of our products and product candidates are subject to significant competition from organizations that are pursuing technologies and products that are the same as or similar to our technology and products. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities and marketing capabilities. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from one or more of the following entities: Ÿ pharmaceutical companies; Ÿ biotechnology companies; Ÿ diagnostic companies; Ÿ medical device companies; Ÿ radiopharmaceutical distributors; Ÿ academic and research institutions; and Ÿ government agencies. QUADRAMET primarily competes with strontium-89 chloride in the radiopharmaceutical pain palliation market. Strontium-89 chloride is manufactured and marketed either as Metastron, by GE HealthCare, or in a generic form by Bio-Nucleonics Pharma, Inc. GE HealthCare manufactures Metastron and sells the product through its wholly-owned network of radiopharmacies, direct to end-users and through other radiopharmacy distributors. The generic version is distributed directly by the manufacturer or is sold through radiopharmacy distributors such as Cardinal Health and Anazao Health (formerly Custom Care Pharmacy). 49 Table of Contents Competitive imaging modalities to PROSTASCINT include CT, MR imaging, and position emission tomography (PET). Currently, there is limited consensus standard of care for oral mucositis supported by clinical data, and to date, there has only been one commercially available prescription pharmaceutical product approved by the FDA for oral mucositis, the intravenous growth factor palifermin. Ice chips, local painkillers and narcotics are also used to reduce the patient's pain, and doctors routinely prescribe mouthwashes containing traditional antibacterial and antifungal drugs for the treatment of oral mucositis, although most clinical trials have shown that they have suboptimal efficacy. There are also a number of oral rinses that have been approved as medical devices by FDA for dry mouth; however, CAPHOSOL is the only approved calcium phosphate oral rinse that is indicated for both oral mucositis and dry mouth. Before we recover development expenses for our products and technologies, the products or technologies may become obsolete as a result of technological developments by others or us. Our products could also be made obsolete by new technologies, which are less expensive or more effective. We may not be able to make the enhancements to our technology necessary to compete successfully with newly emerging technologies and failure to do so could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for our products. We have established an internal sales force that is responsible for marketing and selling CAPHOSOL, QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT. If our internal sales force is unable to successfully market CAPHOSOL, QUADRAMET and PROSTASCINT, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to establish and maintain significant sales, marketing and distribution efforts within the United States, either internally or through arrangements with third parties, our business may be significantly and adversely affected. In locations outside of the United States, we have not established a selling presence. To the extent that our sales force, from time to time, markets and sells additional products, we cannot be certain that adequate resources or sales capacity will be available to effectively accomplish these tasks. Failure of third party payors to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products could limit market acceptance and affect pricing of our products and affect our revenues. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of favorable coverage and reimbursement by governmental healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid as well as private health insurance plans. Each payor has its own process and standards for determining whether and, if so, to what extent it will cover and reimburse a particular product or service. Whether and to what extent a product may be deemed covered by a particular payor depends upon a number of factors, including the payor's determination that the product is reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which it is administered according to accepted standards of medical practice, cost effective, not experimental or investigational, not found by the FDA to be less than effective, and not otherwise excluded from coverage by law, regulation, or contract. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly-approved products, and coverage may not be available or could be more limited than the purposes for which the product is approved by the FDA. 50 Table of Contents Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs, which include, for example, research, development, production, sales, and distribution costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, also may not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the product and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data. Net prices for products may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs, or other payors, or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own coverage policies and reimbursement rates, and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Even if successful, securing coverage at adequate reimbursement rates from government and third party payors can be a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products among other data and materials to each payor. Our inability to promptly obtain favorable coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from government-funded and private payors for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will continue to be affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to regulate expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect payments for therapeutic and diagnostic imaging agents such as our products. In addition, an emphasis on managed care increases possible pressure on the pricing of these products. While we cannot predict whether these legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, or the effects these proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business, the announcement of these proposals and the adoption of these proposals or efforts could affect our stock price or our business. Further, to the extent these proposals or efforts have an adverse effect on other companies that are our prospective corporate partners, our ability to establish necessary strategic alliances may be harmed. Our business is subject to various government regulations and, if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we may not be able to continue our operations. At present, the U.S. federal government regulation of biotechnology is divided among three agencies: Ÿ the USDA regulates the import, field testing and interstate movement of specific types of genetic engineering that may be used in the creation of transgenic plants; 51 Table of Contents Ÿ the EPA regulates activity related to the invention of plant pesticides and herbicides, which may include certain kinds of transgenic plants; and Ÿ the FDA regulates foods derived from new plant varieties. The FDA requires that transgenic plants meet the same standards for safety that are required for all other plants and foods in general. Except in the case of additives that significantly alter a food's structure, the FDA does not require any additional standards or specific approval for genetically engineered foods, but expects transgenic plant developers to consult the FDA before introducing a new food into the marketplace. Use of our technology, if developed for human health applications, will also be subject to FDA regulation. The FDA must approve any drug or biologic product before it can be marketed in the United States. In addition, prior to being sold outside of the U.S., any products resulting from the application of our human health technology must be approved by the regulatory agencies of foreign governments. Prior to filing a new drug application or biologics license application with the FDA, we would have to perform extensive clinical trials, and prior to beginning any clinical trial, we need to perform extensive preclinical testing which could take several years and may require substantial expenditures. We believe that our current activities, which to date have been confined to research and development efforts, do not require licensing or approval by any governmental regulatory agency. However, federal, state and foreign regulations relating to crop protection products and human health applications developed through biotechnology are subject to public concerns and political circumstances, and, as a result, regulations have changed and may change substantially in the future. Accordingly, we may become subject to governmental regulations or approvals or become subject to licensing requirements in connection with our research and development efforts. We may also be required to obtain such licensing or approval from the governmental regulatory agencies described above, or from state agencies, prior to the commercialization of our genetically transformed plants and human health technology. In addition, our marketing partners who utilize our technology or sell products grown with our technology may be subject to government regulations. If unfavorable governmental regulations are imposed on our technology or if we fail to obtain licenses or approvals in a timely manner, we may not be able to continue our operations. Preclinical studies and clinical trials of our human health applications may be unsuccessful, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval. Preclinical studies may reveal that our human health technology is ineffective or harmful, and/or clinical trials may be unsuccessful in demonstrating efficacy and safety of our human health technology, which would significantly limit the possibility of obtaining regulatory approval for any drug or biologic product manufactured with our technology. The FDA requires submission of extensive preclinical, clinical and manufacturing data to assess the efficacy and safety of potential products. Furthermore, the success of preliminary studies does not ensure commercial success, and later-stage clinical trials may fail to confirm the results of the preliminary studies. 52 Table of Contents Even if we receive regulatory approval, consumers may not accept products containing our technology, which will prevent us from being profitable since we have no other source of revenue. We cannot guarantee that consumers will accept products containing our technology. Recently, there has been consumer concern and consumer advocate activism with respect to genetically engineered consumer products. The adverse consequences from heightened consumer concern in this regard could affect the markets for products developed with our technology and could also result in increased government regulation in response to that concern. If the public or potential customers perceive our technology to be genetic modification or genetic engineering, agricultural products grown with our technology may not gain market acceptance. Increasing political and social turmoil, such as terrorist and military actions, increase the difficulty for us and our strategic partners to forecast accurately and plan future business activities. Recent political and social turmoil, including the conflict in Iraq and the current crisis in the Middle East, can be expected to put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These political, social and economic conditions may make it difficult for us to plan future business activities. We depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of their services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of development or strategic objectives. Our success depends on our ability to retain key employees and to attract additional qualified employees. Competition for personnel is intense, and therefore we may not be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain additional highly qualified employees in the future. We do not carry key person life insurance policies and we do not typically enter into long-term arrangements with our key personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel in key positions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected unless qualified replacements can be found. Our business exposes us to product liability claims that may exceed our financial resources, including our insurance coverage, and may lead to the curtailment or termination of our operations. Our business is subject to product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products, and product liability claims may be asserted against us, our collaborators or our licensees. While we currently maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $10 million, such coverage may not be adequate to protect us against future product liability claims. In addition, product liability insurance may not be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we have not had a history of claims payments that have exceeded our insurance coverage or available financial resources, if liability claims against us exceed our financial resources or coverage amounts, we may have to curtail or 53 Table of Contents terminate our operations. In addition, while we currently maintain directors and officers liability insurance in the amount of $25 million and an additional $5 million of personal liability coverage for directors and officers, such coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or be adequate to cover any claims that we may be required to satisfy in the future. Our insurance coverage is subject to industry standard and certain other limitations. Our security measures may not adequately protect our unpatented technology and, if we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology may be adversely affected. Our success depends upon know-how, unpatentable trade secrets, and the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel. As a result, we require all employees to agree to a confidentiality provision that prohibits the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside of our company, during the term of employment and thereafter. We also require all employees to disclose and assign to us the rights to their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. We also attempt to enter into similar agreements with our consultants, advisors and research collaborators. We cannot assure you that adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information against unauthorized use or disclosure will be available. We occasionally provide information to research collaborators in academic institutions and request the collaborators to conduct certain tests. We cannot assure you that the academic institutions will not assert intellectual property rights in the results of the tests conducted by the research collaborators, or that the academic institutions will grant licenses under such intellectual property rights to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If the assertion of intellectual property rights by an academic institution is substantiated, and the academic institution does not grant intellectual property rights to us, these events could limit our ability to commercialize our technology. Our capital raising efforts may dilute stockholder interests. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debentures, such issuance will result in ownership dilution to our existing stockholders, new investors could have rights superior to those of our existing stockholders and stock price may decline. The extent of such dilution will vary based upon the amount of capital raised and the terms on which it is raised. We may need to raise funds other than through the issuance of equity securities. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or product candidates or to grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If we relinquish rights or grant licenses on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to develop or market products in a manner that is profitable to us. 54 Table of Contents Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution as a result of the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, stock options and warrants to purchase 12,860,797 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we have 703,278 nonvested shares outstanding and have reserved an additional 989,901 shares of our common stock for future issuance of options granted pursuant to our 2006 Equity Compensation Plan, 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, 2004 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan and 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The exercise of these options and warrants and vesting of nonvested shares will result in dilution to our existing stockholders and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The following table summarizes information about outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock at December 31, 2007: Exercise Price Outstanding Warrants Aggregate Exercise Price $ 2.23 3,256,177 $ 7,264,532 $ 3.32 3,546,107 $ 11,773,075 $ 4.25 1,118,868 $ 4,755,189 $ 6.00 776,096 $ 4,656,576 $ 6.91 315,790 $ 2,182,108 $ 10.97 250,000 $ 2,742,500 $ 12.80 1,272,332 $ 16,285,850 The warrants exercisable at $10.97 per share and $12.80 per share become automatically exercised, in full, if our common stock trades for 30 consecutive trading days at 130% of the respective exercise prices. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock may be sold in the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. As of December 31, 2007, we had 35,570,836 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, all of which are either eligible to be sold under SEC Rule 144 or are in the public float or are in the process of being registered with the SEC. In addition, we have registered shares of our Common Stock underlying warrants previously issued on numerous Form S-3 registration statements, and we have also registered shares of our common stock underlying options granted or to be granted under our stock option plans. Consequently, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our common stock has a limited trading market, which could limit your ability to resell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market and currently has a limited trading market. Because the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market is low, liquidity of our common stock is impaired. As a result, the 55 Table of Contents price of our common stock may be lower then it might otherwise be if trading volumes were greater. The NASDAQ Global Market requires us to meet minimum financial requirements in order to maintain our listing. On November 5, 2007, we received notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market that the Company is not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market. We cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or, if developed, will be maintained. As a result, our stockholders may find it difficult to dispose of shares of our common stock and, as a result, may suffer a loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment. The liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. On November 5, 2007 we received notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, that the Company is not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). The closing price of our common stock has been below $1.00 per share since September 24, 2007. The letter states that we have 180 calendar days, or until May 5, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. We can achieve compliance, if at any time before May 5, 2008, our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for at least 10 consecutive business days. If compliance with NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rules is not achieved by May 5, 2008, NASDAQ will provide notice that our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. In the event of such notification, we would have an opportunity to appeal NASDAQ’s determination. If faced with delisting, we may submit an application to transfer the listing of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market. Alternatively, if our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. We cannot assure you that our common stock if delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market will be listed on a national securities exchange, a national quotation service, the OTC Bulletin Board or the pink sheets. We have not yet determined what action, if any, we will take in response to the notice from NASDAQ, although we intend to monitor the closing bid price of our common stock between now and May 5, 2008, and to consider available options if our common stock does not trade at a level likely to result in the Company regaining compliance with the NASDAQ minimum closing bid price requirement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. Delisting from NASDAQ would make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. Without a NASDAQ listing, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock would likely decline. Delisting from NASDAQ would also result in negative publicity and would also make it more difficult for us to 56 Table of Contents raise additional capital. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our common stock as currency or the value accorded it by other parties. Further, if we are delisted, we would also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. These requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market and we are not able to transfer the listing of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock likely will become a "penny stock." In general, regulations of the SEC define a "penny stock" to be an equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market and that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock becomes a penny stock, additional sales practice requirements would be imposed on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than certain qualified investors. For transactions involving a penny stock, unless exempt, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. In addition, the rules on penny stocks require delivery, prior to and after any penny stock transaction, of disclosures required by the SEC. If our common stock were subject to the rules on penny stocks, the market liquidity for our common stock could be severely and adversely affected. Accordingly, the ability of holders of our common stock to sell their shares in the secondary market may also be adversely affected. Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our shares of common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and we intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their investment unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares. We could be negatively impacted by future interpretation or implementation of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and veterans' health programs. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. 57 Table of Contents However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could become subject to false claims litigation under federal or state statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. These false claims statutes include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The healthcare fraud and abuse laws to which we are subject include the following, among others: Federal and State Anti-Kickback Laws and Safe Harbor Provisions. The federal anti-kickback law makes it a felony to knowingly and willfully offer, or pay remuneration "to induce" a person to refer an individual or to recommend or arrange for the purchase, lease or ordering of any item or service for which payment may be made under the Medicare or state healthcare programs. The anti-kickback prohibitions apply regardless of whether the remuneration is provided directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind. Interpretations of the law have been very broad. Under current law, courts and federal regulatory authorities have stated that this law is violated if even one purpose, as opposed to the sole or primary purpose, of the arrangement is to induce referrals. Violations of the anti-kickback law carry potentially severe penalties including imprisonment of up to five years, criminal fines, civil money penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or OIG, has published "safe harbors" that exempt some arrangements from enforcement action under the anti-kickback statute. These statutory and regulatory safe harbors protect various bona fide employment relationships, personal service arrangements, certain discount arrangements, among other things, provided that certain conditions set forth in the statute and regulations are satisfied. The safe harbor regulations, however, do not comprehensively describe all lawful arrangements, and the failure of an arrangement to satisfy all of the requirements of a particular safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement is unlawful. Failure to comply with the safe harbor provisions, however, may mean that the arrangement will be subject to scrutiny by the OIG. 58 Table of Contents Many states have adopted similar prohibitions. Some of these state laws lack specific "safe harbors" that may be available under federal law. Sanctions under these state anti-kickback laws may include civil money penalties, license suspension or revocation, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid, and criminal fines or imprisonment. We believe that our contracts and arrangements are not in violation of applicable anti-kickback or related laws. We cannot assure you, however, that these laws will ultimately be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices. False Claims Acts. We are subject to state and federal laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. The Federal Civil False Claims Act imposes civil liability on individuals or entities that submit, or "cause" to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the Civil False Claims Act may result in treble damages, civil monetary penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we could be subject to criminal penalties under a variety of federal statutes to the extent that we knowingly violate legal requirements under federal health programs or otherwise present or cause the presentation of false or fraudulent claims or documentation to the government. In addition, the OIG may impose extensive and costly corporate integrity requirements upon entities and individuals subject to a false claims judgment or settlement. These requirements may include the creation of a formal compliance program, the appointment of an independent review organization, and the imposition of annual reporting requirements and audits conducted by an independent review organization to monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement and relevant laws and regulations. The Federal Civil False Claims Act also allows a private individual to bring a qui tam suit on behalf of the government for violations of the Civil False Claims Act, and if successful, the qui tam relator shares in the government's recovery. A qui tam suit may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. Recently, the number of qui tam suits brought in the healthcare industry has increased dramatically. In addition, several states have enacted laws modeled after the Federal Civil False Claims Act. Civil Monetary Penalties. The Civil Monetary Penalties Statute states that civil penalties ranging between $10,000 and $50,000 per claim or act may be imposed on any person or entity that knowingly submits, or causes the submission of, improperly filed claims for federal health benefits, or makes payments to induce a beneficiary or provider to reduce or limit the use of healthcare services or to use a particular provider or supplier. Civil monetary penalties may be imposed for violations of the anti-kickback statute and for the failure to return known overpayments, among other things. Prohibition on Employing or Contracting with Excluded Providers. The Social Security Act and federal regulations state that individuals or entities that have been convicted of a criminal offense related to the delivery of an item or service under the Medicare or Medicaid 59 Table of Contents programs or that have been convicted, under state or federal law, of a criminal offense relating to neglect or abuse of residents in connection with the delivery of a healthcare item or service cannot participate in any federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. HIPAA created new healthcare related crimes, and granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to impose certain civil penalties. Particularly, the Secretary may now exclude from Medicare any individual with a direct or indirect ownership interest in an entity convicted of healthcare fraud or excluded from the program. Under HIPAA and other healthcare laws, it is a crime to knowingly and willfully commit a healthcare fraud, and knowingly and willfully falsify, or conceal material information or make any materially false or fraudulent statements in connection with claims and payment for healthcare services by a healthcare benefit plan. HIPAA also created new programs to control fraud and abuse, and requires new investigations, audits and inspections. We believe that our operations materially comply with applicable regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you of the outcome of any inquiry audit or investigation undertaken by HHS, OIG or DOJ. If we are ever found to have engaged in improper practices, we could be subjected to civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or restitutionary relief, and suspension or exclusion of the entity or individuals from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. Patient Information and Privacy. HIPAA also mandates, among other things, the establishment of regulatory standards addressing the electronic exchange of health information, standards for the privacy and security of health information maintained or exchanged electronically, and standards for assigning unique health identifiers to healthcare providers. Sanctions for failure to comply with HIPAA standards include civil and criminal penalties. The Security Standards require us to implement certain security measures to protect certain individually identifiable health information, called protected health information, or PHI, in electronic format. The Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Information restrict use and disclosure of PHI unless patient authorization for such disclosures are obtained. These Privacy Standards not only require our compliance with standards restricting the use and disclosure of PHI, but also require us to obtain satisfactory assurances that any business associate of ours who has access to our PHI similarly will safeguard such PHI. We have evaluated these rules to determine the effects of the rules on our business, and we believe that we have taken the appropriate steps to ensure that we will comply with these standards in all material respects by their respective compliance deadlines. Our business involves environmental risks that may result in liability. We are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign government regulations relating to storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic, infectious or other hazardous substances used to manufacture our products. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be liable for damages, penalties, or other forms of censure and our business could be significantly and adversely affected. We currently do not carry insurance for contamination or injury resulting from the use of such materials. 60 Table of Contents PROSTASCINT and QUADRAMET utilize radioactive materials. PROSTASCINT is not manufactured or shipped as a radioactive material because the radioactive component is not added until the product has arrived at its final destination (a radiopharmacy). Laureate Pharma, our contract manufacturer of PROSTASCINT, holds a radioactive materials license because such license is required for certain release and stability tests of the product. QUADRAMET, however, is manufactured and shipped as radioactive, and therefore, the manufacturing and distribution of this product must comply with regulations promulgated by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. BMSMI manufacturers and distributes QUADRAMET, and is, therefore, subject to these regulations. We have been and, in the future, may be subject to patent litigation. On March 17, 2000, we were served with a complaint filed against us in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey by M. David Goldenberg and Immunomedics, Inc. The litigation claimed that our PROSTASCINT product infringes a patent purportedly owned by Goldenberg and licensed to Immunomedics. We believe that PROSTASCINT did not infringe this patent, and that the patent was invalid and unenforceable. In June 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the district court's grant of summary judgment of no literal infringement. Regarding infringement under the doctrine of equivalents, however, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit disagreed with the district court's conclusion that there was no issue of material fact and reversed the district court's grant of summary judgment on this point and remanded for further proceedings on the issue. In September 2004, we settled the patent infringement suit for an undisclosed payment, without any admission of fault or liability. On November 7, 2007, Eastern Virginia Medical School (“EVMS”) filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. In the complaint, EVMS purported that our PROSTASCINT product infringed a patent owned by EVMS and previously licensed to us under an agreement entered into in 1991 between EVMS and us. In February 2008, the parties executed a non-binding term sheet setting forth mutually acceptable terms for settlement of the pending litigation between the parties. Pursuant to the term sheet, Cytogen and EVMS are currently working toward finalizing and executing a settlement agreement, as well as a new license agreement. We cannot give any assurance that we will not become subject to additional patent litigation in the future, which could result in material expenditures to us. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value or fluctuate significantly. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to fluctuate for various reasons, including, but not limited to, announcements concerning our competitors or us regarding: 61 Table of Contents Ÿ results of clinical trials; Ÿ technological innovations or new commercial products; Ÿ changes in governmental regulation or the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; Ÿ changes in earnings; Ÿ changes in health care policies and practices; Ÿ developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights; Ÿ litigation or public concern as to safety of the our potential products; and Ÿ changes in general market conditions. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. These fluctuations may or may not be based upon any of our business or operating results. Our common stock may experience similar or even more dramatic price and volume fluctuations which may continue indefinitely. We will be obligated to pay liquidated damages if we do not keep certain registration statement effective for a certain period of time. In connection with the sale of Cytogen shares and warrants in November 2006, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with the investors under which we were obligated to file a registration statement with the SEC for the resale of Cytogen shares sold to the investors and shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants within a specified time period. We are also required to use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the registration statement continuously effective with the SEC until such time when all of the registered shares are sold or three years from the closing date, whichever is earlier. In the event we fail to keep the registration statement effective, we are obligated to pay the investors liquidated damages equal to 1% of the aggregate purchase price of $20 million for each 30-day period that the registration statement is not effective, up to 10%. On December 28, 2006, the SEC declared the registration statement effective. In connection with the sale of Cytogen shares and warrants in July 2007, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with the investors under which we were obligated to file a registration statement with the SEC for the resale of Cytogen shares sold to the investors and shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants within a specified time period. We are also required to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration to be declared effective by the SEC and to remain continuously effective until such time when all of the registered shares are sold or two years from the closing date, whichever is earlier. In the event we fail to keep the 62 Table of Contents registration statement effective, we are obligated to pay the investors liquidated damages equal to 1% of the aggregate purchase price of $10.1 million for each monthly period that the registration statement is not effective, up to 10%. On August 22, 2007, the SEC declared the registration statement effective. We have adopted various anti-takeover provisions which may affect the market price of our common stock and prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management team. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the holders of common stock, to issue from time to time, up to 5,400,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series, and to fix the rights and preferences of the preferred stock. We have implemented a stockholder rights plan by which one preferred stock purchase right is attached to each share of common stock, as a means to deter coercive takeover tactics and to prevent an acquirer from gaining control of us without some mechanism to secure a fair price for all of our stockholders if an acquisition was completed. These rights will be exercisable if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock and can be made exercisable by action of our Board of Directors if a person or group commences a tender offer which would result in such person or group beneficially owning 20% or more of our common stock. Each right will entitle the holder to buy one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of our junior participating preferred stock for $20. If any person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our common stock (with certain limited exceptions), then each right not owned by the 20% stockholder will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right's then current exercise price, common shares having a market value of twice the exercise price. In addition, if after any person has become a 20% stockholder, we are involved in a merger or other business combination transaction with another person, each right will entitle its holder (other than the 20% stockholder) to purchase, at the right's then current exercise price, common shares of the acquiring company having a value of twice the right's then current exercise price. We are subject to provisions of Delaware corporate law which, subject to certain exceptions, will prohibit us from engaging in any "business combination" with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years following the date that the person came to own 15% or more of our common stock unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions of the stockholder rights plan, our certificate of incorporation, and of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Cytogen, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price, and the voting and other rights of the holders, of our common stock. In addition, these provisions make it more difficult to replace or remove our current management team in the event our stockholders believe this would be in the best interest of the Company and our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 63 Table of Contents Item 