RISK FACTORS The risks described below could adversely affect the price of CEL-SCI’s common stock. Risks Related to CEL-SCI Since CEL-SCI has earned only limited revenues and has a history of losses, CEL-SCI will require additional capital to remain in operation, complete its clinical trials and fund pre-marketing expenses. CEL-SCI has had only limited revenues since it was formed in 1983. Since the date of its formation and through September 30, 2013, CEL-SCI incurred net losses of approximately $212 million. CEL-SCI has relied principally upon the proceeds of public and private sales of its securities to finance its activities to date. If CEL-SCI cannot obtain additional capital, CEL-SCI may have to postpone development and research expenditures, which will delay CEL-SCI's ability to produce a competitive product. Delays of this nature may depress the price of CEL-SCI's common stock. In addition, although CEL-SCI is not aware of a direct competitor for Multikine, it is possible that one exists. There are many potential competitors of LEAPS. If competitors develop, any delay in the development of CEL-SCI’s products may provide opportunities to those competitors. The condition of the overall economy may continue to affect both the availability of capital and CEL-SCI’s stock price. In addition, future capital raises, which will be necessary for CEL-SCI’s survival, will be further dilutive to current shareholders. There can be no assurance that CEL-SCI will be able to raise the capital it will need. All of CEL-SCI's potential products, with the exception of Multikine, are in the early stages of development, and any commercial sale of these products will be many years away. Even potential product sales from Multikine are years away, since cancer trials can be lengthy. Accordingly, CEL-SCI expects to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. Since CEL-SCI does not intend to pay dividends on its common stock, any potential return to investors will result only from any increases in the price of CEL-SCI's common stock. At the present time, CEL-SCI intends to use available funds to finance its operations. Accordingly, while payment of dividends rests within the discretion of CEL-SCI’s Directors, no common stock dividends have been declared or paid by CEL-SCI and CEL-SCI has no intention of paying any common stock dividends in the foreseeable future. Any gains for CEL-SCI’s investors will most likely result from increases in the price of CEL-SCI’s common stock, which has been volatile in the recent past. If CEL-SCI’s stock price does not increase, which likely will depend primarily upon the results of the Multikine clinical trials, an investor is unlikely to receive any return on an investment in CEL-SCI’s common stock. 11 The costs of CEL-SCI’s product development and clinical trials are difficult to estimate and will be very high for many years, preventing CEL-SCI from making a profit for the foreseeable future, if ever. Clinical and other studies necessary to obtain approval of a new drug can be time consuming and costly, especially in the United States, but also in foreign countries. CEL-SCI's estimates of the costs associated with future clinical trials and research may be substantially lower than what CEL-SCI actually experiences. It is impossible to predict what CEL-SCI will face in the development of a product, such as LEAPS. The purpose of clinical trials is to provide both CEL-SCI and regulatory authorities with safety and efficacy data in humans. It is relatively common to revise a trial or add subjects to a trial in progress. These examples of common vagaries in product development and clinical investigations demonstrate how predicted costs may exceed reasonable expectations. The difficult and often complex steps necessary to obtain regulatory approval, especially that of the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the European Union’s European Medicine’s Agency (“EMA”), involve significant costs and may require several years to complete. CEL-SCI expects that it will need substantial additional financing over an extended period of time in order to fund the costs of future clinical trials, related research, and general and administrative expenses. The extent of CEL-SCI's clinical trials and research programs are primarily based upon the amount of capital available to CEL-SCI and the extent to which it receives regulatory approvals for clinical trials. CEL-SCI has established estimates of the future costs of the Phase III clinical trial for Multikine, but, as explained above, that estimate may not prove correct. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. CEL-SCI is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changing legal requirements may cause CEL-SCI to incur higher costs as it revises current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from potential revenue-generating activities to compliance matters. If CEL-SCI’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, CEL-SCI’s reputation may also be harmed. Further, CEL-SCI’s board members, chief executive officer, president and other executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, CEL-SCI may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm its business. CEL-SCI has not established a definite plan for the marketing of Multikine. CEL-SCI has not established a definitive plan for marketing nor has it established a price structure for any of its products. However, CEL-SCI intends, if it is in a position to do so, to sell Multikine itself in certain markets and to enter into written marketing agreements with various major pharmaceutical firms with established sales forces. The sales forces in turn would, CEL-SCI believes, target CEL-SCI's products to cancer centers, physicians and clinics involved in head and neck cancer. CEL-SCI has already licensed Multikine to three companies, Teva Pharmaceuticals in Israel, Turkey, Serbia and Croatia, Orient Europharma in Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, South Korea, the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand, and Byron BioPharma, LLC in South Africa. CEL-SCI believes that these companies have the resources to market Multikine appropriately in their respective territories, but there is no guarantee that they will. There is no assurance that CEL-SCI will find qualified parties willing to market CEL-SCI’s product in other areas. 12 CEL-SCI may encounter problems, delays and additional expenses in developing marketing plans with outside firms. In addition, even if Multikine is cost effective and proven to increase overall survival, CEL-SCI may experience other limitations involving the proposed sale of Multikine, such as uncertainty of third-party reimbursement. There is no assurance that CEL-SCI can successfully market any products which it may develop. CEL-SCI hopes to expand its clinical development capabilities in the future, and any difficulties hiring or retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt CEL-SCI’s operations. CEL-SCI is highly dependent on the principal members of CEL-SCI’s management and development staff since Multikine is a complex biologic and is being developed as a first line therapy. If the Multikine clinical trial is successful, CEL-SCI expects to expand its clinical development and manufacturing capabilities, which will involve hiring additional employees. Future growth will require CEL-SCI to continue to implement and improve CEL-SCI’s managerial, operational and financial systems and to continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on CEL-SCI’s administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. CEL-SCI is highly dependent on its ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and specialized personnel required for clinical development. Due to CEL-SCI’s limited resources, CEL-SCI may not be able to manage effectively the expansion of its operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If CEL-SCI is unable to retain key personnel or manage its growth effectively, CEL-SCI may not be able to implement its business plan. Multikine is made from components of human blood, which involves inherent risks that may lead to product destruction or patient injury. Multikine is made, in part, from components of human blood. There are inherent risks associated with products that involve human blood such as possible contamination with viruses, including Hepatitis or HIV. Any possible contamination could require CEL-SCI to destroy batches of Multikine or cause injuries to patients who receive the product, thereby subjecting CEL-SCI to possible financial losses, lawsuits, and harm to its business. Although CEL-SCI has product liability insurance for Multikine, the successful prosecution of a product liability case against CEL-SCI could have a materially adverse effect upon its business if the amount of any judgment exceeds CEL-SCI's insurance coverage. Such a suit also could damage the reputation of Multikine and make successful marketing of the product less likely. CEL-SCI commenced the Phase III clinical trial for Multikine in December 2010. Although no claims have been brought to date, participants in CEL-SCI's clinical trials could bring civil actions against CEL-SCI for any unanticipated harmful effects arising from the use of Multikine or any drug or product that CEL-SCI may attempt to develop. 13 Risks Related to Government Approvals CEL-SCI's product candidates must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and regulatory approvals, which could be costly and time-consuming and subject CEL-SCI to unanticipated delays or prevent CEL-SCI from marketing any products. Therapeutic agents, drugs and diagnostic products are subject to approval, prior to general marketing, from the FDA in the United States, the EMA in the European Union, and by comparable agencies in most foreign countries. Before obtaining marketing approval, these product candidates must undergo costly and time consuming preclinical and clinical testing which could subject CEL-SCI to unanticipated delays and may prevent CEL-SCI from marketing its product candidates. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. CEL-SCI cannot be certain when or under what conditions it will undertake future clinical trials. A variety of issues may delay CEL-SCI’s Phase III clinical trial for Multikine or preclinical and early clinical trials for other products. For example, early trials, or the plans for later trials, may not satisfy the requirements of regulatory authorities, such as the FDA. CEL-SCI may fail to find subjects willing to enroll in CEL-SCI’s trials. CEL-SCI manufactures Multikine, but relies on third party vendors for managing the trial process and other activities, and these vendors may fail to meet appropriate standards. Accordingly, the clinical trials relating to CEL-SCI's product candidates may not be completed on schedule, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may order CEL-SCI to stop or modify its research, or these agencies may not ultimately approve any of CEL-SCI's product candidates for commercial sale. Varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of CEL-SCI's product candidates. The data collected from CEL-SCI's clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of its various product candidates, including Multikine. CEL-SCI's failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of its product candidates would delay or prevent regulatory approval of its product candidates in the United States, which could prevent CEL-SCI from achieving profitability. Although CEL-SCI had positive results in its Phase II trials for Multikine, those results were for a very small sample set, and CEL-SCI will not know definitively how Multikine will perform until CEL-SCI is well into, or completes, its Phase III clinical trial. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing of CEL-SCI's product candidates, including Multikine, outside the United States vary from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different trial designs. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process. Some of those agencies also must approve prices for products approved for marketing. Approval of a product by the FDA or the EMA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements for product approval in any country during the clinical trial process and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. CEL-SCI has only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. CEL-SCI’s lack of experience may impede its ability to obtain timely approvals from regulatory agencies, if at all. CEL-SCI will not be able to commercialize Multikine and other product candidates until it has obtained regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory authorities may also limit the types of patients to which CEL-SCI or others may market Multikine or CEL-SCI's other products. Any failure to obtain or any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals may adversely affect the ability of CEL-SCI or potential licensees to successfully market CEL-SCI’s products. 14 Even if CEL-SCI obtains regulatory approval for its product candidates, CEL-SCI will be subject to stringent, ongoing government regulation. If CEL-SCI's products receive regulatory approval, either in the United States or internationally, CEL-SCI will continue to be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: ● product design, development and manufacture; ● product application and use ● adverse drug experience; ● product advertising and promotion; ● product manufacturing, including good manufacturing practices ● record keeping requirements; ● registration and listing of CEL-SCI's establishments and products with the FDA, EMA and other state and national agencies; ● product storage and shipping; ● drug sampling and distribution requirements; ● electronic record and signature requirements; and ● labeling changes or modifications. CEL-SCI and any third-party manufacturers or suppliers must continually adhere to federal regulations setting forth requirements, known as current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs, and their foreign equivalents, which are enforced by the FDA, the EMA and other national regulatory bodies through their facilities inspection programs. If CEL-SCI's facilities, or the facilities of CEL-SCI’s contract manufacturers or suppliers, cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA, EMA, or other national regulators will not approve the marketing applications of CEL-SCI's product candidates. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, CEL-SCI and any of its potential third-party manufacturers or suppliers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to ensure that CEL-SCI’s products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If CEL-SCI does not comply with regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, CEL-SCI may be subject to license suspension or revocation, criminal prosecution, seizure, injunction, fines, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including restrictions or delays in obtaining regulatory marketing approval for such products or for other products for which it seeks approval. This could materially harm CEL-SCI's financial results, reputation and stock price. Additionally, CEL-SCI may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. CEL-SCI may also be required to undertake post-marketing trials, which will be evaluated by applicable authorities to determine if CEL-SCI’s products may remain on the market. If CEL-SCI or other parties identify adverse effects after any of CEL-SCI's products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be suspended or withdrawn. CEL-SCI may be required to reformulate its products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in product labeling or indications of use, or submit additional marketing applications to support any changes. If CEL-SCI encounters any of the foregoing problems, its business and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of its common stock may decline. 15 CEL-SCI cannot predict the extent of adverse government regulations which might arise from future legislative or administrative action. Without government approval, CEL-SCI will be unable to sell any of its products. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect CEL-SCI’s future profitability. CEL-SCI intends to seek approval to market Multikine in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. If CEL-SCI obtains approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, CEL-SCI will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to Multikine. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, CEL-SCI may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of Multikine to other available therapies. If reimbursement of Multikine is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, CEL-SCI may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Risks Related to Intellectual Property CEL-SCI may not be able to achieve or maintain a competitive position, and other technological developments may result in CEL-SCI's proprietary technologies becoming uneconomical or obsolete. CEL-SCI is involved in a biomedical field that is undergoing rapid and significant technological change. The pace of change continues to accelerate. The successful development of products from CEL-SCI's compounds, compositions and processes through CEL-SCI-financed research, or as a result of possible licensing arrangements with pharmaceutical or other companies, is not assured. Many companies are working on drugs designed to cure or treat cancer or cure and treat viruses, such as HPV or H1N1. Many of these companies have financial, research and development, and marketing resources, which are much greater than CEL-SCI’s, and are capable of providing significant long-term competition either by establishing in-house research groups or by forming collaborative ventures with other entities. In addition, smaller companies and non-profit institutions are active in research relating to cancer and infectious diseases. CEL-SCI’s market share will be reduced or eliminated if CEL-SCI’s competitors develop and obtain approval for products that are safer or more effective than CEL-SCI’s products. 16 CEL-SCI's patents might not protect CEL-SCI's technology from competitors, in which case CEL-SCI may not have any advantage over competitors in selling any products which it may develop. Certain aspects of CEL-SCI's technologies are covered by U.S. and foreign patents. In addition, CEL-SCI has a number of new patent applications pending. There is no assurance that the applications still pending or which may be filed in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Furthermore, there is no assurance as to the breadth and degree of protection any issued patents might afford CEL-SCI. Disputes may arise between CEL-SCI and others as to the scope and validity of these or other patents. Any defense of the patents could prove costly and time consuming and there can be no assurance that CEL-SCI will be in a position, or will deem it advisable, to carry on such a defense. A suit for patent infringement could result in increasing costs, delaying or halting development, or even forcing CEL-SCI to abandon a product. Other private and public concerns, including universities, may have filed applications for, may have been issued, or may obtain additional patents and other proprietary rights to technology potentially useful or necessary to CEL-SCI. CEL-SCI currently is not aware of any such patents, but the scope and validity of such patents, if any, and the cost and availability of such rights are impossible to predict. Also, as far as CEL-SCI relies upon unpatented proprietary technology, there is no assurance that others may not acquire or independently develop the same or similar technology. Much of CEL-SCI’s intellectual property is protected as a trade secret, not as a patent. Much of CEL-SCI’s intellectual property pertains to its manufacturing system, certain aspects of which may not be suitable for patent filing and must be protected as trade secrets. Those trade secrets must be protected diligently by CEL-SCI to protect their disclosure to competitors, since legal protections after disclosure may be minimal or non-existent. Accordingly, much of CEL-SCI’s value is dependent upon its ability to keep its trade secrets confidential. Although CEL-SCI takes measures to ensure confidentiality, CEL-SCI may fail in that attempt. In addition, in some cases a regulator considering CEL-SCI’s application for product approval may require the disclosure of some or all of CEL-SCI’s proprietary information. In such a case, CEL-SCI must decide whether to disclose the information or forego approval in a particular country. If CEL-SCI is unable to market its products in key countries, CEL-SCI’s opportunities and value may suffer. Risks Related to CEL-SCI's Common Stock Since the market price for CEL-SCI's common stock is volatile, investors may not be able to sell any of CEL-SCI's shares at a profit. The market price of CEL-SCI's common stock, as well as the securities of other biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. During the twelve months ended September 30, 2013, CEL-SCI's stock price has ranged from a low of $1.60 per share to a high of $3.90 per share. Factors such as fluctuations in CEL-SCI's operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products by CEL-SCI or its competitors, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of products developed by CEL-SCI or other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, publications by market analysts, law suits, and general market conditions may have a significant effect on the future market price of CEL-SCI's common stock. 17 Future sales of CEL-SCI’s securities may dilute the value of current investors’ holdings. The provisions in CEL-SCI's Articles of Incorporation relating to CEL-SCI's preferred stock allow CEL-SCI's directors to issue preferred stock with rights to multiple votes per share and dividend rights which would have priority over any dividends paid with respect to CEL-SCI's common stock. The issuance of preferred stock with such rights may make more difficult the removal of management even if such removal would be considered beneficial to shareholders generally, and will have the effect of limiting shareholder participation in certain transactions such as mergers or tender offers if such transactions are not favored by incumbent management. In addition, CEL-SCI has issued warrants in the past and may do so in the future. These warrants, providing a future right to purchase shares of CEL-SCI’s common stock at an established price, may further dilute the ownership of current shareholders. In order to raise additional capital, CEL-SCI may need to sell shares of its common stock, or securities convertible into common stock, at prices that may be below the prevailing market price of CEL-SCI's common stock at the time of sale. Since CEL-SCI’s stock price has been volatile, even a sale at market price one week may represent a substantial “discount” over the prior week’s price. Future sales of CEL-SCI’s securities will dilute CEL-SCI’s current stockholders and investors and may have a negative effect on the market price of its common stock. Shares issuable upon the conversion of notes or upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options may substantially increase the number of shares available for sale in the public market and may depress the price of CEL-SCI's common stock. As of September 30, 2013, there were outstanding options which allows the holders to purchase approximately 5,200,000 shares of our common stock, at prices ranging between $1.60 and $20.00 per share, outstanding warrants which allow the holders to purchase approximately 9,918,000 shares of our common stock, at prices ranging between $2.50 and $17.50 per share, and a convertible note which allows the holder to acquire approximately 276,000 shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $4.00. The outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing or engage in certain mergers or other transactions, since the holders of options and warrants can be expected to exercise them at a time when we may be able to obtain additional capital through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to us than the terms of the outstanding options and warrants. For the life of the options, warrants and the convertible note, the holders have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, or the conversion of the note, will also dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Substantially all of the shares of common stock that are issuable upon the conversion of the note or the exercise of outstanding options and warrants may be sold in the public market. The sale of common stock described above, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of CEL-SCI's common stock. Any decline in the price of CEL-SCI's common stock may encourage short sales, which could place further downward pressure on the price of CEL-SCI's common stock. Short selling is a practice of selling shares which are not owned by a seller at that time, with the expectation that the market price of the shares will decline in value after the sale, providing the short seller a profit. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS None 