RISK FACTORS The risks described below could adversely affect the price of CEL-SCI’s common stock. Risks Related to CEL-SCI CEL-SCI has incurred significant losses since inception, and CEL-SCI anticipates that it will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. CEL-SCI has a history of net losses and expects to incur substantial losses and have negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and may never achieve or maintain profitability. Since the date of its formation and through September 30, 2015, CEL-SCI incurred net losses of approximately $274 million. CEL-SCI has relied principally upon the proceeds of the public and private sales of its securities to finance the activities to date. To date, CEL-SCI has not commercialized any products or generated any revenue from the sale of products, and CEL-SCI does not expect to generate any product revenue for the foreseeable future. CEL-SCI does not know whether or when it will generate product revenue or become profitable. CEL-SCI is heavily dependent on the success of Multikine which is under clinical development. CEL-SCI cannot be certain that Multikine will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized even if CEL-SCI receives regulatory approval. Multikine is the only product candidate in late-stage clinical development, and its business currently depends heavily on its successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization. CEL-SCI has no drug products for sale currently and may never be able to develop approved and marketable drug products. 15 Even if CEL-SCI succeeds in developing and commercializing one or more of its product candidates, CEL-SCI expects to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipates that its expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as CEL-SCI: · continues to undertake preclinical development and clinical trials for product candidates; · seeks regulatory approvals for product candidates; · implements additional internal systems and infrastructure; and · hires additional personnel. To become and remain profitable, CEL-SCI must succeed in developing and commercializing the product candidates which must generate significant revenue. This will require CEL-SCI to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including completing preclinical testing and clinical trials of its product candidates, discovering or acquiring additional product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for these product candidates and manufacturing, marketing and selling any products for which CEL-SCI may obtain regulatory approval. CEL-SCI is only in the preliminary stages of most of these activities. CEL-SCI may never succeed in these activities and, even if it is successful in these areas, may never generate revenue that is significant enough to achieve profitability. Even if CEL-SCI does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to become and remain profitable could depress the value of CEL-SCI and could impair its ability to raise capital, expand its business, maintain research and development efforts, diversify product offerings or even continue in operation. A decline in the value of CEL-SCI could cause its stockholders to lose all or part of their investment. CEL-SCI will require substantial additional capital to remain in operation. A failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed could force CEL-SCI to delay, limit, reduce or terminate the product candidates’ development or commercialization efforts. As of September 30, 2015, CEL-SCI had cash and cash equivalents of $5.7 million. CEL-SCI believes that it will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future developing Multikine, LEAPS and any other product candidates or technologies that it may develop or acquire. These expenditures will include costs associated with research and development, potentially obtaining regulatory approvals and having the products manufactured, as well as marketing and selling products approved for sale, if any. In addition, other unanticipated costs may arise. Because the outcome of the current and anticipated clinical trials is highly uncertain, CEL-SCI cannot reasonably estimate the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of the product candidates. 16 CEL-SCI’s future capital requirements depend on many factors, including: · the rate of progress of, results of and cost of completing Phase 3 clinical development of Multikine for the treatment of certain head and neck cancers; · the results of the applications to and meetings with the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities and the consequential effect on operating costs; · assuming favorable Phase 3 clinical results, the cost, timing and outcome of the efforts to obtain marketing approval for Multikine in the United States, Europe and in other jurisdictions, including the preparation and filing of regulatory submissions for Multikine with the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities; · the scope, progress, results and costs of additional preclinical, clinical, or other studies for additional indications for Multikine, LEAPS and other product candidates and technologies that CEL-SCI may develop or acquire; · the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for LEAPS if clinical studies are successful; · the cost and timing of future commercialization activities for the products if any of the product candidates are approved for marketing, including product manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution costs; · the revenue, if any, received from commercial sales of the product candidates for which CEL-SCI receives marketing approval; · the cost of having the product candidates manufactured for clinical trials and in preparation for commercialization; · the ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, licensing or other arrangements and the financial terms of such agreements; · the costs involved in preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, defending and enforcing the intellectual property rights, including litigation costs, and the outcome of such litigation; and · the extent to which CEL-SCI acquires or licenses other products or technologies. Based on the current operating plan, and absent any future financings or strategic partnerships, CEL-SCI believes that the existing cash and cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund the projected operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements well into fiscal 2016. However, the operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to CEL-SCI, and CEL-SCI may need additional funds sooner than planned. Additional funds may not be available when CEL-SCI needs them on terms that are acceptable to CEL-SCI, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to CEL-SCI on a timely basis, CEL-SCI may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate preclinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for Multikine, LEAPS, or any other product candidates or technologies that CEL-SCI develops or acquires, or delay, limit, reduce or terminate the establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize the product candidates. 17 The costs of the product candidate development and clinical trials are difficult to estimate and will be very high for many years, preventing CEL-SCI from making a profit for the foreseeable future, if ever. Clinical and other studies necessary to obtain approval of a new drug can be time consuming and costly, especially in the United States, but also in foreign countries. The estimates of the costs associated with future clinical trials and research may be substantially lower than what CEL-SCI actually experiences. It is impossible to predict what CEL-SCI will face in the development of a product candidate, such as Multikine. The purpose of clinical trials is to provide both CEL-SCI and regulatory authorities with safety and efficacy data in humans. It is relatively common to revise a trial or add subjects to a trial in progress. The difficult and often complex steps necessary to obtain regulatory approval, especially those of the FDA and the European Union’s European Medicine’s Agency, or EMA, involve significant costs and may require several years to complete. CEL-SCI expects that it will need substantial additional financing over an extended period of time in order to fund the costs of future clinical trials, related research, and general and administrative expenses. The extent of the clinical trials and research programs are primarily based upon the amount of capital available to CEL-SCI and the extent to which CEL-SCI receives regulatory approvals for clinical trials. CEL-SCI has established estimates of the future costs of the Phase 3 clinical trial for Multikine, but, as explained above, the estimates may not prove correct. An adverse determination in any current or future lawsuits or arbitration proceedings to which CEL-SCI is a party could have a material adverse effect on CEL-SCI. CEL-SCI is currently involved in a pending arbitration proceeding, CEL-SCI Corporation v. inVentiv Health Clinical, LLC (f/k/a PharmaNet LLC) and PharmaNet GmbH (f/k/a PharmaNet AG). CEL-SCI initiated the proceedings against inVentiv Health Clinical, LLC, or inVentiv, the former third-party CRO, and is seeking payment for damages related to inVentiv’s prior involvement in the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial of Multikine. The arbitration claim, initiated under the Commercial Rules of the American Arbitration Association, alleges (i) breach of contract, (ii) fraud in the inducement, and (iii) common law fraud. Currently, CEL-SCI is seeking at least $50 million in damages in its amended statement of claim. Based upon further analysis, however, CEL-SCI believes that its damages (direct and consequential) presently total over $150 million. In an amended statement of claim, CEL-SCI asserted the claims set forth above as well as an additional claim for professional malpractice. The arbitrator subsequently granted inVentiv’s motion to dismiss the professional malpractice claim based on the “economic loss doctrine” under New Jersey law, a legal doctrine that, under certain circumstances, prohibits bringing a negligence-based claim alongside a claim for breach of contract. The arbitrator denied the remainder of inVentiv’s motion, which had sought to dismiss certain other aspects of the amended statement of claim. In particular, the arbitrator rejected inVentiv’s argument that several aspects of the amended statement of claim were beyond the arbitrator’s jurisdiction. 18 In connection with the pending arbitration proceedings, inVentiv has asserted counterclaims against CEL-SCI for (i) breach of contract, seeking at least $2 million in damages for services allegedly performed by inVentiv; (ii) breach of contract, seeking at least $1 million in damages for the alleged use of inVentiv’s name in connection with publications and promotions in violation of the parties’ contract; (iii) opportunistic breach, restitution and unjust enrichment, seeking at least $20 million in disgorgement of alleged unjust profits allegedly made by CEL-SCI as a result of the purported breaches referenced in subsection (ii); and (iv) defamation, seeking at least $1 million in damages for allegedly defamatory statements made about inVentiv. CEL-SCI believes inVentiv’s counterclaims are meritless and intends to vigorously defend against them. However, if such defense is unsuccessful, and inVentiv successfully asserts any of its counterclaims, such an adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on its business, results, financial condition and liquidity. In October 2015 CEL-SCI signed an arbitration funding agreement with a company established by Lake Whillans Litigation Finance, LLC, a firm specializing in funding litigation expenses. Pursuant to the agreement, an affiliate of Lake Whillans will provide CEL-SCI with up to $5,000,000 in funding for litigation expenses to support its $50,000,000 arbitration claims against inVentiv. The funding will be available to CEL-SCI if and when needed to fund the expenses of the ongoing arbitration and will only be repaid when CEL-SCI receives proceeds from the arbitration. The arbitration hearing on the merits (the “trial”) is expected to occur in the spring of 2016. The exact date has not yet been determined. Additionally, CEL-SCI may also be the target of claims asserting violations of securities fraud and derivative actions, or other litigation or arbitration proceedings in the future. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. These lawsuits or arbitration proceedings may result in large judgments or settlements against CEL-SCI, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. CEL-SCI is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changing legal requirements may cause CEL-SCI to incur higher costs as CEL-SCI revises current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from potential revenue-generating activities to compliance matters. If the efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, the reputation may also be harmed. Further, CEL-SCI’s board members, chief executive officer, president and other executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, CEL-SCI may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm its business. 19 CEL-SCI has not established a definite plan for the marketing of Multikine, if approved. CEL-SCI has not established a definitive plan for marketing nor has CEL-SCI established a price structure for any of its product candidates, if approved. However, CEL-SCI intends, if it is in a position to do so, to sell Multikine itself in certain markets where it is approved, or to enter into written marketing agreements with various third parties with established sales forces in such markets. The sales forces in turn would, CEL-SCI believes, focus on selling Multikine to targeted cancer centers, physicians and clinics involved in the treatment of head and neck cancer. CEL-SCI has already licensed future sales of Multikine, if approved, to three companies: Teva Pharmaceuticals in Israel, Turkey, Serbia and Croatia; Orient Europharma in Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, South Korea, the Philippines, Australia and New Zealand; and Byron BioPharma, LLC in South Africa. CEL-SCI believes that these companies will have the resources to market Multikine appropriately in their respective territories, if approved, but there is no guarantee that they will. There is no assurance that CEL-SCI will be able to find qualified third-party partners to market Multikine in other areas, on terms that are favorable to CEL-SCI, or at all. CEL-SCI may encounter problems, delays and additional expenses in developing marketing plans with third parties. In addition, even if Multikine, if approved, is cost-effective and demonstrated to increase overall patient survival, CEL-SCI may experience other limitations involving the proposed sale of Multikine, such as uncertainty of third-party coverage and reimbursement. There is no assurance that CEL-SCI can successfully market Multikine, if approved, or any other product candidates it may develop. CEL-SCI hopes to expand its clinical development capabilities in the future, and any difficulties hiring or retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt the operations. CEL-SCI is highly dependent on the principal members of its management and development staff. If the ongoing Phase 3 Multikine clinical trial is successful, CEL-SCI expects to expand its clinical development and manufacturing capabilities, which will involve hiring additional employees. Future growth will require CEL-SCI to continue to implement and improve the managerial, operational and financial systems and to continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on the administrative and its operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. CEL-SCI is highly dependent on its ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and specialized personnel required for clinical development. Due to limited resources, CEL-SCI may not be able to manage effectively the expansion of its operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If CEL-SCI is unable to retain key personnel or manage the future growth effectively, CEL-SCI may not be able to implement its business plan. If product liability or patient injury lawsuits are brought against CEL-SCI, CEL-SCI may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit clinical testing or future commercialization of Multikine or its other product candidates. 20 CEL-SCI faces an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the ongoing clinical testing of Multikine and other product candidates, and will face an even greater risk if CEL-SCI commercializes any of its product candidates. For example, CEL-SCI may be sued if the Multikine or LEAPS product candidates, or any other future product candidates, allegedly cause injury or are found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing or, if approved, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product candidate, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. Furthermore, Multikine is made, in part, from components of human blood. There are inherent risks associated with products that involve human blood such as possible contamination with viruses, including hepatitis or HIV. Any possible contamination could cause injuries to patients who receive such contaminated Multikine, or could require CEL-SCI to destroy batches of Multikine, thereby subjecting CEL-SCI to possible financial losses, lawsuits and harm to its business. If CEL-SCI cannot successfully defend itself against product liability claims, CEL-SCI may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit or cease the clinical testing or commercialization of its product candidates, if approved. Even a successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for Multikine or other product candidates, if approved; · injury to CEL-SCI’s reputation; · withdrawal of existing, or failure to enroll additional, clinical trial participants; · costs to defend any related litigation; · a diversion of management’s time and the resources; · substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; · product candidate recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; · loss of revenue; · inability to commercialize Multikine or the other product candidates; and · a decline in the price of CEL-SCI’s common stock. Although CEL-SCI has product liability insurance for Multikine in the amount of $5.0 million, the successful prosecution of a product liability case against CEL-SCI could have a materially adverse effect upon its business if the amount of any judgment exceeds the insurance coverage. Any claim that may be brought against CEL-SCI could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by CEL-SCI’s insurance or that is in excess of the limits of the insurance coverage. CEL-SCI’s insurance policies also have various exclusions, and CEL-SCI may be subject to a claim for which CEL-SCI has no coverage. CEL-SCI may have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed the coverage limitations or that are not covered by the insurance, and CEL-SCI may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. CEL-SCI commenced the Phase 3 clinical trial for Multikine in December 2010. Although no claims have been brought to date, participants in the clinical trials could bring civil actions against CEL-SCI for any unanticipated harmful effects allegedly arising from the use of Multikine or any other product candidate that CEL-SCI may attempt to develop. 21 CEL-SCI’s commercial success depends, in part, upon attaining significant market acceptance of its product candidates, if approved, among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and major operators of cancer clinics. Even if CEL-SCI obtains regulatory approval for its product candidates, any resulting product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community, which are critical to commercial success. Market acceptance of any product candidate for which CEL-SCI receives approval depends on a number of factors, including: · the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials; · the timing of market introduction of such product candidate as well as competitive products; · the clinical indications for which the drug is approved; · the approval, availability, market acceptance and reimbursement for the companion diagnostic; · acceptance by physicians, major operators of cancer clinics and patients of the drug as a safe and effective treatment; · the potential and perceived advantages of a product candidate over alternative treatments, especially with respect to patient subsets that are targeted with a product candidate; · the safety of a product candidate seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications; · the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; · the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and · the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts. If CEL-SCI’s product candidates are approved but fail to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, CEL-SCI will not be able to generate significant revenues, and CEL-SCI may not become or remain profitable. 22 Risks Related to Government Approvals CEL-SCI’s product candidates must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and regulatory approvals, which could be costly and time-consuming and subject CEL-SCI to unanticipated delays or prevent CEL-SCI from marketing any products. CEL-SCI’s product candidates are subject to premarket approval from the FDA in the United States, the EMA in the European Union, and by comparable agencies in most foreign countries before they can be sold. Before obtaining marketing approval, these product candidates must undergo costly and time consuming preclinical and clinical testing which could subject CEL-SCI to unanticipated delays and may prevent CEL-SCI from marketing the product candidates. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of the product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. CEL-SCI’s current and future clinical trials may not be successful. Although CEL-SCI has a Phase 3 clinical trial ongoing for Multikine, CEL-SCI may experience delays in the ongoing clinical trials and CEL-SCI does not know whether other planned clinical trials will begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: · the availability of financial resources needed to commence and complete the planned trials; · obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; · obtaining Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval at each clinical trial site; · recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; · having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; · clinical trial sites deviating from trial protocol or dropping out of a trial; · adding new clinical trial sites; or · manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in clinical trials. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the competence of the CRO running the study, size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications CEL-SCI is investigating. Furthermore, CEL-SCI relies on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of the clinical trials and while CEL-SCI has agreements governing their committed activities, CEL-SCI has limited influence over their actual performance. 23 For example, CEL-SCI is currently involved in a dispute with its former CRO relating to the conduct of the Phase 3 study where CEL-SCI alleges (i) breach of contract, (ii) fraud in the inducement, and (iii) fraud. In connection with this dispute, CEL-SCI has alleged that the CRO failed to properly select, monitor and supervise the study sites and principal investigators, ensure proper enrollment of subjects, and ensure strict compliance with the Phase 3 trial protocol and Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, and other applicable regulatory requirements. If CEL-SCI or regulatory authorities determine that the former CRO did not comply with GCP or other applicable regulatory requirements, data collected by that former CRO may be rendered unusable in support of the marketing applications, and CEL-SCI may be required to enroll additional subjects in the Phase 3 study beyond current plans, which could cause additional delays in its clinical testing and development program. During the tenure of the former CRO, 117 patients were enrolled in the Phase 3 study. CEL-SCI could also encounter delays if physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of the product candidates in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by CEL-SCI, the IRBs for the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, the Independent Data Monitoring Committee, or IDMC, for such trial, or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a product candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If CEL-SCI experiences termination of, or delays in the completion of, any clinical trial of the product candidates, the commercial prospects for the product candidates will be harmed, and the ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing the clinical trials will increase the costs, slow the product development and approval process and jeopardize the ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm CEL-SCI’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval for the product candidates. CEL-SCI cannot be certain when or under what conditions it will undertake future clinical trials. A variety of issues may delay the Phase 3 clinical trial for Multikine or preclinical and early clinical trials for the other product candidates. For example, early trials, or the plans for later trials, may not satisfy the requirements of regulatory authorities, such as the FDA. CEL-SCI may fail to find subjects willing to enroll in the trials. CEL-SCI manufactures Multikine in its manufacturing facility, but relies on third-party vendors to manage the trial process and other activities, and these vendors may fail to meet appropriate standards. Accordingly, the clinical trials relating to the product candidates may not be completed on schedule, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may order CEL-SCI to stop or modify research, or these agencies may not ultimately approve any of the product candidates for commercial sale. Varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of the product candidates. The data collected from the clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of the various product candidates, including Multikine. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of the product candidates would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product candidates in the United States, which could prevent CEL-SCI from achieving profitability. Although CEL-SCI had positive results in the Phase 2 trials for Multikine, those results were for a very small sample set, and CEL-SCI will not know how Multikine will perform in a larger set of subjects until CEL-SCI is well into, or completes, the Phase 3 clinical trial. 24 The development and testing of product candidates and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. FDA sanctions could include, among other actions, refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls or withdrawals from the market, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on CEL-SCI. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of the product candidates, including Multikine, outside the United States vary from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can require, among other things, additional testing and different trial designs. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process. Some of those agencies also must approve prices for products approved for marketing. Approval of a product by the FDA or the EMA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements for product approval in any country during the clinical trial process and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. CEL-SCI has only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The lack of experience may impede the ability to obtain timely approvals from regulatory agencies, if at all. CEL-SCI will not be able to commercialize Multikine and other product candidates until CEL-SCI has obtained regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory authorities may also limit the types of patients to which CEL-SCI or the third-party partners may market Multikine or the other product candidates. Any failure to obtain or any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals may adversely affect CEL-SCI’s or the third-party partners’ ability to successfully market the product candidates. 25 Even if CEL-SCI obtains regulatory approval for its product candidates, CEL-SCI will be subject to stringent, ongoing government regulation. If CEL-SCI’s product candidates receive regulatory approval, either in the United States or internationally, those products will be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, and may contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance of the safety and efficacy of the product candidates. CEL-SCI will continue to be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things: · product design, development and manufacture; · product application and use · adverse drug experience; · product advertising and promotion; · product manufacturing, including good manufacturing practices · record keeping requirements; · registration and listing of the establishments and products with the FDA, EMA and other state and national agencies; · product storage and shipping; · drug sampling and distribution requirements; · electronic record and signature requirements; and · labeling changes or modifications. CEL-SCI and any third-party manufacturers or suppliers must continually adhere to federal regulations setting forth requirements, known as cGMPs, and their foreign equivalents, which are enforced by the FDA, the EMA and other national regulatory bodies through their facilities inspection programs. If the facilities, or the facilities of the contract manufacturers or suppliers, cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection or fail such inspections in the future, the FDA, EMA or other national regulators will not approve the marketing applications for the product candidates, or may withdraw any prior approval. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, CEL-SCI and any of the potential third-party manufacturers or suppliers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to ensure that the product candidates meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If CEL-SCI does not comply with regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, CEL-SCI may be subject to, among other things, license suspension or revocation, criminal prosecution, seizure, injunction, fines, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including restrictions or delays in obtaining regulatory marketing approval for such products or for other product candidates for which CEL-SCI seeks approval. This could materially harm CEL-SCI’s financial results, reputation and stock price. Additionally, CEL-SCI may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. If CEL-SCI or other parties identify adverse effects after any of the products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be suspended or withdrawn. CEL-SCI may be required to reformulate products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in product labeling or indications of use, or submit additional marketing applications to support any changes. If CEL-SCI encounters any of the foregoing problems, its business and results of operations will be harmed and the market price of its common stock may decline. 26 FDA and other governmental authorities’ policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of CEL-SCI’s product candidates. If CEL-SCI is slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if CEL-SCI is not able to maintain regulatory compliance, CEL-SCI may lose any marketing approval that it may have obtained, which would adversely affect its business, prospects and ability to achieve or sustain profitability. CEL-SCI cannot predict the extent of adverse government regulations which might arise from future legislative or administrative action. Without government approval, CEL-SCI will be unable to sell any of its product candidates. CEL-SCI’s product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial profile of an approved label, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if any. Undesirable side effects caused by the product candidates could cause CEL-SCI or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign authorities. Results of the clinical trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and/or prevalence of these or other side effects. In such an event, the trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order CEL-SCI to cease further development of, or deny approval of, the product candidates for any or all targeted indications. The drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. Any of these occurrences may harm CEL-SCI’s business, financial condition and prospects significantly. Additionally if one or more of the product candidates receives marketing approval, and CEL-SCI or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by such products, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: · regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product; · regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label; · CEL-SCI may be required to create a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients; · CEL-SCI could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and · its reputation may suffer. 27 Any of these events could prevent CEL-SCI from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of a particular product candidate, if approved, and could significantly harm its business, results of operations and prospects. CEL-SCI relies on third parties to conduct its preclinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties and meet regulatory requirements, or meet expected deadlines, CEL-SCI may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidates and its business could be substantially harmed. CEL-SCI has relied upon and plans to continue to rely upon third-party CROs to prepare for, conduct, monitor and manage data for its ongoing preclinical and clinical programs. CEL-SCI relies on these parties for all aspects of the execution of the preclinical and clinical trials, and although CEL-SCI diligently oversees and carefully manages the CROs, CEL-SCI directly controls only certain aspects of their activities and relies upon them to provide timely, complete, and accurate reports on the conduct of the studies. Although such third parties stand in the shoes for regulatory purposes in the context of the clinical trials, ultimately CEL-SCI is responsible for ensuring that each of the studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory, and scientific standards, and the reliance on the CROs does not relieve CEL-SCI of its regulatory responsibilities. CEL-SCI and the CROs, as well as principal investigators and trial sites, are required to comply with GCP and other applicable requirements, which are implemented through regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area, or EEA, and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of the products in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these GCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators, and trial sites. If CEL-SCI or any of the CROs fail to comply with applicable GCPs or other applicable regulations, the data generated in the clinical trials may be determined to be unreliable and CEL-SCI may therefore need to enroll additional subjects in the clinical trials, or the FDA, EMA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require CEL-SCI to perform an additional clinical trial or trials before approving the marketing applications. Moreover, if CEL-SCI or any of the CROs, principal investigators, or trial sites, fail to comply with applicable regulatory and GCP requirements, then CEL-SCI, the CROs, principal investigators, or trial sites may be subject to enforcement actions, such as fines, warning letters, untitled letters, clinical holds, civil or criminal penalties, and injunctions. Upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, the regulatory authority may determine that any of the clinical trials fail to comply with GCP regulations. In addition, the clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under GMP regulations. The failure to comply with these regulations may require CEL-SCI to delay or repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. For example, CEL-SCI is currently involved in a dispute with the former CRO relating to the conduct of the Phase 3 study where CEL-SCI alleges (i) breach of contract, (ii) fraud in the inducement and (iii) fraud. In connection with this dispute, CEL-SCI has alleged that the CRO failed to properly select, monitor and supervise the study sites and principal investigators, ensure proper enrollment of subjects, and ensure strict compliance with the Phase 3 trial protocol and GCP and other applicable regulatory requirements. If CEL-SCI or regulatory authorities determine that the former CRO did not comply with GCP or other applicable regulatory requirements, the data collected by that former CRO may be rendered unusable in support of the marketing applications, and CEL-SCI may be required to enroll additional subjects in the Phase 3 study beyond the current plans, which could cause additional delays in the clinical testing and development program. 28 If any of the relationships with the third-party CROs terminate, CEL-SCI may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, the CROs are not CEL-SCI’s employees, and except for remedies available to CEL-SCI under the agreements with such CROs, CEL-SCI cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to the on-going clinical, nonclinical and preclinical programs. If CROs do not successfully fulfill their regulatory obligations, carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to the clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, the clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and CEL-SCI may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize the product candidates. As a result, CEL-SCI’s results of operations and the commercial prospects for the product candidates would be harmed, the costs could increase and the ability to generate revenues could be delayed. Switching or adding additional CROs involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays may occur, which can materially impact CEL-SCI’s ability to meet the desired clinical development timelines. Though CEL-SCI diligently oversees and carefully manages the relationships with the CROs, there can be no assurance that CEL-SCI will not encounter similar challenges or delays in clinical development in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on CEL-SCI’s business, financial condition and prospects. CEL-SCI has obtained orphan drug designation from the FDA for Multikine for neoadjuvant, or primary, therapy in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, but CEL-SCI may be unable to maintain the benefits associated with orphan drug designation, including the potential for market exclusivity. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to a drug or biologic intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is defined as one occurring in a patient population of fewer than 200,000 in the United States, or a patient population greater than 200,000 in the United States where there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing the drug or biologic will be recovered from sales in the United States. In the United States, orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers. In addition, if a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications, including a full Biologics License Application, or BLA, to market the same biologic for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity or where the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient product quantity. Even though CEL-SCI has received orphan drug designation for Multikine for the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, CEL-SCI may not be the first to obtain marketing approval of a product for the orphan-designated indication due to the uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products. In addition, exclusive marketing rights in the United States may be limited if CEL-SCI seeks approval for an indication broader than the orphan-designated indication, or may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if CEL-SCI is unable to assure sufficient quantities of the product to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. Further, even if CEL-SCI obtains orphan drug exclusivity for a product candidate, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product candidate from competition because different drugs with different active moieties can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan product is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve another drug with the same active moiety for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective, or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug designation neither shortens the development time or regulatory review time of a drug nor gives the drug any advantage in the regulatory review or approval process. 29 The current and future relationships with healthcare professionals, principal investigators, consultants, customers (actual and potential) and third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere may be subject, directly or indirectly, to applicable healthcare laws and regulations. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any drug candidates for which CEL-SCI obtains marketing approval. The current and future arrangements with healthcare professionals, principal investigators, consultants, customers (actual and potential) and third-party payors may expose CEL-SCI to broadly applicable healthcare laws, including, without limitation: · the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of, any good, facility, item or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. In addition, the Affordable Care Act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act; · federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the federal False Claims Act, which impose criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower actions, against individuals or entities for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; · the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person or entity who, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent; 30 · the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payor (e.g., public or private), knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a health care benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation; · HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose obligations on covered entities, including healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their respective business associates that create, receive, maintain or transmit individually identifiable health information for or on behalf of a covered entity, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; · the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act and its implementing regulations, which imposed annual reporting requirements for certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies for payments and “transfers of value” provided to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and · analogous state and foreign laws, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; state and foreign laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. Efforts to ensure that the future business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that the business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws. If CEL-SCI’s operations are found to be in violation of any of these applicable laws or any other governmental regulations, CEL-SCI may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, including, without limitation, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of the operations, all of which could significantly harm CEL-SCI’s business. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom CEL-SCI expects to do business, including current and future collaborators, are found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from participation in government healthcare programs, which could also adversely affect CEL-SCI’s business. 31 Failure to obtain or maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for the product candidates, if approved, could limit the ability to market those products and decrease CEL-SCI’s ability to generate revenue. Sales of CEL-SCI’s product candidates will depend substantially, both domestically and abroad, on the extent to which the costs of the product candidates will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit, and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. CEL-SCI anticipates that government authorities and other third-party payors will continue efforts to contain healthcare costs by limiting the coverage and reimbursement levels for new drugs. If coverage and reimbursement are not available, or are available only to limited levels, CEL-SCI may not be able to successfully commercialize its product candidates. Even if coverage is provided, the approved reimbursement amount may not be high enough to allow CEL-SCI to establish or maintain pricing sufficient to realize a return on its investment. It is difficult to predict at this time what third-party payors will decide with respect to the coverage and reimbursement for the product candidates. Healthcare legislative reform measures may have a material adverse effect on CEL-SCI’s business and results of operations. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs that may result in more limited coverage or downward pressure on the price CEL-SCI may otherwise receive for its product candidates. For example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Affordable Care Act, was passed, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. The Affordable Care Act, among other things, addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and extended the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, established annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, and established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation with broad authority to test and implement new payment models under Medicare and Medicaid, which are designed to reduce expenditures while preserving and enhancing quality of care. 32 In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. On April 16, 2015, President Obama signed into law the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, or MACRA. Among other things, MACRA creates incentives for physicians to participate in alternative payment models under Medicare that emphasize quality and value in place of the traditional, volume-based fee-for-service program. CEL-SCI expects that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for its product candidates or additional pricing pressures. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect CEL-SCI’s future profitability. CEL-SCI intends to seek approval to market Multikine in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. If CEL-SCI obtains approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, CEL-SCI will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to Multikine. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. Coverage and reimbursement decisions in one foreign jurisdiction may impact decisions in other countries. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, CEL-SCI may be required to conduct clinical trials that demonstrate the product candidate is more effective than current treatments and that compare the cost-effectiveness of Multikine to other available therapies. If reimbursement of Multikine is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, CEL-SCI may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Risks Related to Intellectual Property CEL-SCI may not be able to achieve or maintain a competitive position, and other technological developments may result in the proprietary technologies becoming uneconomical or obsolete. CEL-SCI is involved in a biomedical field that is undergoing rapid and significant technological change. The pace of change continues to accelerate. The successful development of product candidates from the compounds, compositions and processes, through research financed by CEL-SCI, or as a result of possible third-party licensing arrangements with pharmaceutical or other companies, is not assured. CEL-SCI may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. 33 Many companies are working on drugs designed to cure or treat cancer or cure and treat viruses, such as HPV or H1N1. Many of these companies have financial, research and development, and marketing resources, which are much greater than CEL-SCI’s, and are capable of providing significant long-term competition either by establishing in-house research groups or by forming collaborative ventures with other entities. In addition, smaller companies and non-profit institutions are active in research relating to cancer and infectious diseases. The future market share of Multikine or the other product candidates, if approved, will be reduced or eliminated if the competitors develop and obtain approval for products that are safer or more effective than CEL-SCI’S product candidates. Moreover, the patent positions of pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are often evolving and remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, CEL-SCI does not know whether: · CEL-SCI was the first to make the inventions covered by each of its issued patents and pending patent applications; · CEL-SCI was the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others will independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of the technologies; · any of the pending patent applications will result in issued patents; · any of the patents will be valid or enforceable; · any patents issued to CEL-SCI or the collaboration partners will provide CEL-SCI with any competitive advantages, or will be challenged by third parties; · CEL-SCI will be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; · the U.S. government will exercise any of its statutory rights to CEL-SCI’s intellectual property that was developed with government funding; or · its business may infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of others. CEL-SCI’s patents might not protect its technology from competitors, in which case CEL-SCI may not have any advantage over competitors in selling any products that CEL-SCI may develop. CEL-SCI’s commercial success will depend in part on its ability to obtain additional patents and protect its existing patent position, as well as its ability to maintain adequate intellectual property protection for the technologies, product candidates, and any future products in the United States and other countries. If CEL-SCI does not adequately protect the technology, product candidates and future products, competitors may be able to use or practice them and erode or negate any competitive advantage CEL-SCI may have, which could harm CEL-SCI’s business and ability to achieve profitability. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect the proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as U.S. laws, and CEL-SCI may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending its proprietary rights in these countries. CEL-SCI will be able to protect the proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that its proprietary technologies, product candidates and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. 34 Certain aspects of CEL-SCI’s technologies are covered by U.S. and foreign patents. In addition, CEL-SCI has a number of new patent applications pending. There is no assurance that the applications still pending or which may be filed in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Furthermore, there is no assurance as to the breadth and degree of protection any issued patents might afford CEL-SCI. Disputes may arise between CEL-SCI and others as to the scope and validity of these or other patents. Any defense of the patents could prove costly and time consuming and there can be no assurance that CEL-SCI will be in a position, or will deem it advisable, to carry on such a defense. A suit for patent infringement could result in increasing costs, delaying or halting development, or even forcing CEL-SCI to abandon a product candidate. Other private and public concerns, including universities, may have filed applications for, may have been issued, or may obtain additional patents and other proprietary rights to technology potentially useful or necessary to CEL-SCI. CEL-SCI is not currently aware of any such patents, but the scope and validity of such patents, if any, and the cost and availability of such rights are impossible to predict. Much of CEL-SCI’s intellectual property is protected as trade secrets or confidential know-how, not as a patent. CEL-SCI considers proprietary trade secrets and/or confidential know-how and unpatented know-how to be important to its business. Much of the intellectual property pertains to CEL-SCI’S manufacturing system, certain aspects of which may not be suitable for patent filings and must be protected as trade secrets and/or confidential know-how. This type of information must be protected diligently by CEL-SCI to protect its disclosure to competitors, since legal protections after disclosure may be minimal or non-existent. Accordingly, much of the value is dependent upon the ability to keep the trade secrets and know-how confidential. To protect this type of information against disclosure or appropriation by competitors, CEL-SCI’s policy is to require its employees, consultants, contractors and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements with CEL-SCI. However, current or former employees, consultants, contractors and advisers may unintentionally or willfully disclose the confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third party obtained illegally, and is using, trade secrets and/or confidential know-how is expensive, time consuming and unpredictable. The enforceability of confidentiality agreements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, in some cases a regulator considering the application for product candidate approval may require the disclosure of some or all of the proprietary information. In such a case, CEL-SCI must decide whether to disclose the information or forego approval in a particular country. If CEL-SCI is unable to market its product candidates in key countries, CEL-SCI’s opportunities and value may suffer. 35 Failure to obtain or maintain trade secrets and/or confidential know-how trade protection could adversely affect CEL-SCI’S competitive position. Moreover, competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and may even apply for patent protection in respect of the same. If successful in obtaining such patent protection, competitors could limit the use of such trade secrets and/or confidential know-how. CEL-SCI may be subject to claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of the patents and other intellectual property. CEL-SCI may also be subject to claims that former employees, collaborators or other third parties have an ownership interest in its patents or other intellectual property. CEL-SCI may be subject to ownership disputes in the future arising, for example, from conflicting obligations of consultants or others who are involved in developing the product candidates. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging inventorship or ownership. If CEL-SCI fails in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, CEL-SCI may lose valuable intellectual property rights, such as exclusive ownership of, or right to use, valuable intellectual property. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on its business. Even if CEL-SCI is successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to CEL-SCI’s management and employees. Risks Related to CEL-SCI’s common stock You may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings or other equity issuances. CEL-SCI expects that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue the planned operations. To raise additional capital, CEL-SCI may in the future offer additional shares of the common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for the common stock. To the extent CEL-SCI raises additional capital by issuing equity securities, the stockholders may experience substantial dilution. These sales may result in material dilution to CEL-SCI’s existing stockholders and new investors could gain rights superior to existing stockholders. CEL-SCI’s outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect the trading price of its common stock. As of September 30, 2015, there were outstanding options which allow the holders to purchase approximately 7,546,000 shares of CEL-SCI’s common stock, at prices ranging between $0.55 and $20.00 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $2.73 per share; outstanding warrants which allow the holders to purchase approximately 53,886,000 shares of CEL-SCI’s common stock, at prices ranging between $0.53 and $5.00 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $1.28 per share; and a convertible loan, which allows the holder to acquire approximately 1,871,282 shares of CEL-SCI’s common stock at a conversion price of $0.59 per share. The outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect the ability to obtain future financing or engage in certain mergers or other transactions, since the holders of options and warrants can be expected to exercise them at a time when CEL-SCI may be able to obtain additional capital through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to CEL-SCI than the terms of the outstanding options and warrants. For the life of the options, warrants and the convertible loan, the holders have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of its common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, or the conversion of the loan, will also dilute the ownership interests of CEL-SCI’s existing stockholders. 36 CEL-SCI’s ability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. Taking into account the prior securities offerings and other transactions, CEL-SCI may have triggered an “ownership change” limitation. In addition, CEL-SCI may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in its stock ownership, some of which are outside its control. As a result, the ability to use the pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could result in increased tax liability. Since CEL-SCI does not intend to pay dividends on its common stock, any potential return to investors will result only from any increases in the price of its common stock. At the present time, CEL-SCI intends to use available funds to finance its operations. Accordingly, while payment of dividends rests within the discretion of the board of directors, no common stock dividends have been declared or paid by CEL-SCI and it has no intention of paying any common stock dividends in the foreseeable future. Additionally, any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on CEL-SCI’s common stock. Any return to CEL-SCI’s shareholders will therefore be limited to appreciation in the price of its common stock, which may never occur. If CEL-SCI’s stock price does not increase, CEL-SCI’S shareholders are unlikely to receive any return on their investments in the common stock. The price of CEL-SCI’s common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for CEL-SCI’s shareholders. CEL-SCI’s stock price has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. As a result of this volatility, CEL-SCI’s shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at or above its current market price. The market price for CEL-SCI’s common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in CEL-SCI’s financial condition and operating results; · actual or anticipated changes in CEL-SCI’s growth rate relative to competitors; · competition from existing products or new products or product candidates that may emerge; 37 · development of new technologies that may address the markets and may make CEL-SCI’s technology less attractive; · changes in physician, hospital or healthcare provider practices that may make CEL-SCI’s product candidates less useful; · announcements by CEL-SCI, its partners or competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments; · developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights; · the recruitment or departure of key personnel; · failure to meet or exceed financial estimates and projections of the investment community or that CEL-SCI provides to the public; · actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts; · variations in the financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to CEL-SCI; · changes to coverage and reimbursement levels by commercial third-party payors and government payors, including Medicare, and any announcements relating to reimbursement levels; · general economic, industry and market conditions; and · the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. Under its amended bylaws, stockholders that initiate certain proceedings may be obligated to reimburse CEL-SCI and its officers and directors for all fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with such proceedings if the claim proves unsuccessful. On February 18, 2015, CEL-SCI adopted new bylaws which include a fee-shifting provision in Article X for stockholder claims. Article X provides that in the event that any stockholder initiates or asserts a claim against CEL-SCI, or any of its officers or directors, including any derivative claim or claim purportedly filed on CEL-SCI’s behalf, and the stockholder does not obtain a judgment on the merits that substantially achieves, in substance and amount, the full remedy sought, then the stockholder will be obligated to reimburse CEL-SCI and any of its officers or directors named in the action, for all fees, costs and expenses of every kind and description that CEL-SCI or its officers or directors may incur in connection with the claim. In adopting Article X, it is the intent that: · all actions, including federal securities law claims, would be subject to Article X; · the phrase “a judgment on the merits” means the determination by a court of competent jurisdiction on the matters submitted to the court; · the phrase “substantially achieves, in both substance and amount” means the plaintiffs in the action would be awarded at least 90% of the relief sought; 38 · only persons who were stockholders at the time an action was brought would be subject to Article X; and · only the directors or officers named in the action would be allowed to recover. The fee-shifting provision contained in Article X of the bylaws is not limited to specific types of actions, but is rather potentially applicable to the fullest extent permitted by law. Fee-shifting bylaws are relatively new and untested. The case law and potential legislative action on fee-shifting bylaws are evolving and there exists considerable uncertainty regarding the validity of, and potential judicial and legislative responses to, such bylaws. For example, it is unclear whether the ability to invoke the fee-shifting bylaw in connection with claims under the federal securities laws would be pre-empted by federal law. Similarly, it is unclear how courts might apply the standard that a claiming stockholder must obtain a judgment that substantially achieves, in substance and amount, the full remedy sought. The application of the fee-shifting bylaw in connection with such claims, if any, will depend in part on future developments of the law. CEL-SCI cannot assure its shareholders that CEL-SCI will or will not invoke the fee-shifting bylaw in any particular dispute. In addition, given the unsettled state of the law related to fee-shifting bylaws, CEL-SCI may incur significant additional costs associated with resolving disputes with respect to such bylaw, which could adversely affect its business and financial condition. If a stockholder that brings any such claim, suit, action or proceeding is unable to obtain the required judgment, the attorneys’ fees and other litigation expenses that might be shifted to a claiming stockholder are potentially significant. This fee-shifting bylaw, therefore, may dissuade or discourage stockholders (and their attorneys) from initiating lawsuits or claims against CEL-SCI or its directors and officers. In addition, it may impact the fees, contingency or otherwise, required by potential plaintiffs’ attorneys to represent the stockholders or otherwise discourage plaintiffs’ attorneys from representing the stockholders at all. As a result, this bylaw may limit the ability of stockholders to affect the management and direction of CEL-SCI, particularly through litigation or the threat of litigation. The provision of the amended bylaws requiring exclusive venue in the U.S. District Court for Delaware for certain types of lawsuits may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against CEL-SCI and its directors and officers. Article X of CEL-SCI’s amended bylaws provides that stockholder claims brought against CEL-SCI, or its officers or directors, including any derivative claim or claim purportedly filed on CEL-SCI’s behalf, must be brought in the U.S. District Court for the district of Delaware and that with respect to any such claim, the laws of Delaware will apply. The exclusive forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum the stockholder finds favorable for disputes with CEL-SCI or its directors or officers, and may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits with respect to claims that may benefit CEL-SCI or the stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS None 39 