ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on the Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below, actual results could differ materially from those mentioned in any forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition, and the price of our common stock, could be materially adversely affected. 14 Risks Related to Our Operations We have a history of net losses and may incur additional losses in the future. We have a history of net losses. In order for us to achieve and maintain consistent profitability from our operations, we must continue to achieve product revenue at or above current levels. We may increase our operating expenses as we attempt to expand our product lines and acquire other businesses and products. As a result, we may need to increase our revenues significantly to achieve sustainable profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sustainable profitability. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business plan relies on certain assumptions for the market for our products which, if incorrect, may adversely affect our profitability. We believe that various demographics and industry-specific trends will help drive growth in the orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic and skincare markets, including: · an aging population with broad medical coverage, increased disposable income and longer life expectancy; · a growing emphasis on physical fitness, leisure sports and conditioning, which will continue to lead to increased injuries; and · increasing awareness and use of non-invasive devices for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation purposes. These demographics and trends are uncertain. The projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or do not materialize, or if alternative treatments to those offered by our products gain widespread acceptance. There are significant risks associated with our strategy of acquiring and integrating businesses. A key element of our strategy is the acquisition of businesses and assets that will complement our current business, increase size, expand our geographic scope of operations, and otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities, obtain financing for acquisitions, make acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or successfully acquire and/or integrate identified targets. Additionally, competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry may escalate, which would increase the costs to us of completing acquisitions or prevent us from making acquisitions. Our ability to implement our acquisition strategy is also subject to other risks and costs, including: · loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of acquired businesses; · diversion of management’s time and attention from our core businesses; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · our ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits expected from an acquisition; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; and · assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets. In addition, in connection with our recent acquisition of Silipos, we face the risk of incurring potential liabilities of Silipos which may not be covered by the limited indemnification in the Silipos Purchase Agreement, as defined later in this document. The above risks could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 We may not be able to adequately manage our growth. We have expanded, and are seeking to continue to expand, our business. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, administrative, operating and financial resources. The continued growth of our customer base, the types of products offered and the geographic markets served can be expected to continue to place a significant strain on our resources. Personnel qualified in the production and marketing of our products are difficult to find and hire, and enhancements of information technology systems to support growth are difficult to implement. Our future performance and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional management and other key personnel. In addition, although we have recently implemented a new information technology platform, we cannot assure you that the new system will be effective in accommodating our growing accounting, financial and information needs. Any failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. A write-off of intangible assets would adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets include substantial intangible assets, including goodwill acquired in connection with the acquisitions of Benefoot, Bi-Op and Silipos representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired. We expect to incur additional goodwill in connection with other acquisitions we make in the future. We evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of the goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings would be required. In the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded a provision for impairment totalling $2,102,000 with respect to certain identifiable intangible assets. Any determination requiring another write-off of a significant portion of other unamortized intangible assets would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. Our business is highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not achieve future growth. The orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic and skincare markets are highly competitive. Certain of our competitors in these markets have more resources and experience as well as more recognizable trademarks for products similar to those sold by us. In addition, the market for orthopedic devices and related products is characterized by new product development and corresponding obsolescence of existing products. Our competitors may develop new techniques, therapeutic procedures or alternative products that are more effective than our current technology or products or that render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive, which could cause a decrease in orders for our custom orthotic products. Such decreases would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to develop successful new products or enhance existing products, obtain regulatory clearances and approval of such products, market such products in a commercially viable manner or gain market acceptance for such products. Failure to develop, license or market new products and product enhancements could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, which could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. We expect that the level of competition faced by us may increase in the future. Some competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and technical resources than us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic and skincare markets. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 We may not be able to raise adequate financing to fund our operations and growth prospects. Our acquisition and product expansion programs, debt servicing requirements, and existing operations will require substantial capital resources. Currently, we do not have a working capital facility or revolving line of credit with a financial institution for additional borrowings. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow or obtain sufficient additional financing to meet these requirements. If we do not have adequate resources and cannot obtain additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may be required to reduce operating costs by altering and delaying our business plan or otherwise radically altering our business practices. Failure to meet our future capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by legal actions or proceedings. On April 21, 2005, Thermo-Ply, Inc., a Florida corporation, filed an action in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida (Tampa Division) against Silipos and four other defendants. The action asserts a claim for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,231,617. Although not specifically identified by the claim, we believe that the claim, insofar as it relates to us, may be directed towards the Explorer Gel Liners manufactured, distributed and sold by Silipos. We are currently investigating the validity of this claim. Should the plaintiff be successful in pressing this claim, Silipos could be enjoined from making, using or selling the accused products and could also be assessed damages for the alleged infringement, which damages could be increased up to three times in the event the infringement is found to be willful, together with attorney fees and certain costs. The parties are currently discussing a settlement of the action, although no assurance can be given that such discussions will lead to a settlement favorable to the Company. Pursuant to the Silipos stock purchase agreement, SSL has agreed to fund any obligations resulting from the settlement over $150,000, which we had accrued or paid as of December 31, 2005. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Silipos, we could become subject to certain claims or actions brought by Poly-Gel, L.L.C. (“Poly-Gel”), Silipos’ former supplier of mineral oil based gels, although no such claims have been brought to date. These claims may arise, for example, out of the supply agreement between Silipos and Poly-Gel dated August 20, 1999, the manufacture, marketing or sale of products made from gel not purchased from Poly-Gel, alleged misappropriation of trade secrets or other confidential information (including gel formulations) of Poly-Gel, as well as any other alleged violations of the supply agreement (the “Potential Poly-Gel Claims”). For any of these potential claims, SSL, the seller of Silipos, has agreed to indemnify us for losses up to $2.0 million, after which we would be liable for any such claims. Furthermore, we have assumed responsibility for the first $150,000 of any other liability in connection with our acquisition of Silipos, and SSL’s maximum liability for total indemnification related to our acquisition of Silipos is between $5,000,000 and $7,000,000. Thus, if the total amount of all claims arising from the acquisition exceed this maximum, whether or not related to Poly-Gel, we would be liable for amounts in excess of the maximum. For claims arising out of conduct that occurs after the closing of the Silipos transaction on September 30, 2004, we have agreed to indemnify SSL against losses. We would expect to vigorously defend against any claims brought by Poly-Gel or any other third party. However, if such claims were brought, we may not ultimately prevail. On or about February 13, 2006, Dr. Gerald P. Zook filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association, naming the Company and Silipos as 2 of the 16 respondents. (Four of the other respondents are the former owners of Silipos and its affiliates, and the other 10 respondents are unknown entities.) The demand for arbitration alleges that the Company and Silipos are in default of obligations to pay royalties in accordance with the terms of a license agreement between Dr. Zook and Silipos dated as of January 1, 1997, with respect to seven patents owned by Dr. Zook and licensed to Silipos. Silipos has paid royalties to Dr. Zook, but Dr. Zook claims that greater royalties are owed. The demand for arbitration 17 seeks an award of $400,000 and reserves the right to seek a higher award after completion of discovery. The Company and Silipos intend to vigorously defend the claim. On or about February 23, 2006, Silipos commenced an action in New York State Supreme Court, New York County, against Mr. Peter D. Bickel, who was the executive vice president of Silipos, Inc., until January 11, 2006. In the action, Silipos seeks, among other things, a declaratory judgment that Mr. Bickel is not entitled to severance pay or other benefits, on account of his breach of various provisions of his employment agreement with Silipos and his non-disclosure agreement with Silipos, and that his termination by Silipos was for “cause” as defined in the employment agreement. Silipos is also seeking an aggregate of $12 million in compensatory and punitive damages for breaches of the employment agreement, breach of the non-disclosure agreement, breach of fiduciary duties, misappropriation of trade secrets, and tortious interference with business relationships. No assurance can be given that Silipos will be successful in recovering all or any portion of this amount. On or about March 22, 2006, Mr. Bickel removed the lawsuit to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and filed an answer denying the material allegations of the complaint and counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that his non-disclosure agreement is unenforceable and that he is entitled to $500,000, representing two years’ base salary, in severance compensation, on the ground that Silipos did not have “cause” to terminate his employment. Silipos intends to vigorously defend these counterclaims. Additionally, in the normal course of business, we may be subject to claims and litigation in the areas of general liability, including claims of employees, and claims, litigation or other liabilities as a result of acquisitions we have completed. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict and we cannot provide you with any assurance that an action or proceeding will not be commenced against us, or that we will prevail in any such action or proceeding. An unfavorable outcome of the arbitration proceeding commenced by Dr. Gerald P. Zook against us and Silipos, may adversely affect our rights to manufacture and/or sell certain products or raise the royalty costs of those certain products. An unfavorable resolution of any legal action or proceeding could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Our existing purchasing arrangements may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain good relations with our suppliers. Our ability to sustain our gross margins has been and will continue to be dependent, in part, on our ability to maintain satisfactory terms with the third-party manufacturers of certain raw materials. These terms may be adversely impacted by changes in our suppliers’ strategies or changes in our relationship with our suppliers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain satisfactory terms with our suppliers. Our inability to maintain such terms, the loss of any of our key suppliers, or any other interruption or delay in the supply of our required materials. or our inability to obtain these materials at acceptable prices or within a reasonable amount of time could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could hurt our reputation and cause customers to cancel orders. We rely heavily on our relationships with healthcare practitioners, agents and distributors for marketing our products, and our failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. The sales of our products depend significantly on the prescription or recommendation of such products by podiatrists, orthopedists, orthopedic surgeons, dermatologists, cosmetic and plastic surgeons, occupational and physical rehabilitation professionals, prosthetists, orthotists and other healthcare professionals. Failure of our products to retain the support of these surgeons and other specialists, or the failure of our products to secure and retain similar support from leading surgeons and other specialists, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operation. 18 Our marketing success also depends largely upon arrangements with agents and distributors. Our success depends upon our agents’ and distributors’ sales and service expertise and their relationships with the customers in the marketplace. Our failure to maintain relationships with our agents and distributors for marketing our products could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business could subject us to potential product liability and other claims. The sale of orthotic and prosthetic products and other biomechanical devices as well as skincare products entails the potential risk of physical injury to patients and other end users and an inherent risk of product liability, lawsuits and product recalls. We currently maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $10 million per occurrence and an annual aggregate maximum of $10 million subject to a deductible of $25,000. However, we cannot assure you that this coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, will be obtainable at a reasonable cost. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk that our claims may be excluded and that our insurers may become insolvent. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of a product liability claim, our reputation could be harmed and we may have to recall some of our products, which could result in significant costs to us and have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Health care regulations or health care reform initiatives could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to governmental regulation and supervision in the United States—at the federal and state levels—and abroad. These regulations include FDA regulations and those regarding Medicare, Medicaid and physician self-referrals. These regulations are far-reaching, and we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. For example, we may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and otherwise comply with regulations regarding safety, quality and efficacy standards. If we fail to obtain such approvals and otherwise comply with applicable regulatory requirements that could result in government authorities taking punitive actions against us, including, among other things, imposing fines and penalties on us or preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the statute has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that these laws and regulations will not change or be interpreted in the future in a manner which restricts or adversely affects our business activities or relationships with providers of orthotic and biomechanical products. Changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our products are sold by us through our network of national, regional, independent and international distributors, hospitals, doctors and other healthcare providers, many of whom are reimbursed for the healthcare services provided to their patients by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Many of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for certain of the products sold by us in the United States. We may be unable to sell our products through our distribution channels on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement, or if our costs of production increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels. The percentage of our sales dependent on 19 Medicare or other insurance programs may increase as the portion of the United States population over age 65 continues to grow, making us more vulnerable to reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels could result in reduced private payor reimbursement levels because of indexing of Medicare fee schedules by certain third-party payors. Furthermore, the healthcare industry is experiencing a trend towards cost containment as government and private insurers seek to contain healthcare costs by imposing lower reimbursement rates and negotiating reduced contract rates with service providers. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Canada and some European countries, for example, have tightened reimbursement rates. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline, which could adversely affect our net sales and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation relating to medical products that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research, development, formulation, manufacture and marketing of our products. In the United States, the FDA has broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, formulation, marketing and sale of medical devices, skincare, and other medical products, and the FTC has broad authority over product advertising. Overseas, these activities are subject to foreign governmental regulation, which is in many respects similar to regulation in the United States but which vary from country to country. United States and foreign regulation continues to evolve, which could result in additional burdens on our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. Additionally, the cost of maintaining personnel and systems necessary to comply with applicable regulations is substantial and increasing. Some of our products may require or will require regulatory approval prior to being marketed. The process of obtaining these approvals can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary approvals for testing or marketing our products. Moreover, regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed or other restrictions or requirements that reduce the value to us of the products. Regulatory authorities may also withdraw product approvals if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if any problems related to our products develop following initial marketing. We are also subject to strict regulation with respect to our manufacturing operations. This regulation includes testing, control and documentation requirements, and compliance with current good manufacturing practices, which is monitored through inspections by regulatory authorities. Our profitability depends, in part, upon our and our distributors’ ability to obtain and maintain all necessary certificates, permits, approvals and clearances from United States and foreign regulatory authorities and to operate in compliance with applicable regulations. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to receive necessary approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Modifications to our marketed devices may require FDA regulatory clearances or approvals and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until such clearances or approvals are obtained. 20 When required, the products we market in the United States have been subjected to Pre-market Notification requirements under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food Drug & Cosmetics Act or were exempt from the 510(k) Pre-market Notification process. We have modified some of our products and product labeling since obtaining 510(k) clearance. If the FDA requires us to submit a new 510(k) Pre-market Notification for modifications to our existing products, we may be the subject of enforcement actions by the FDA and be required to stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the 510(k) Pre-market Notification. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination than we expect, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline or otherwise adversely impact our growth. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will be subject to the more costly, lengthy and uncertain Pre-market Approval, or PMA, process. Products that are approved through the PMA process generally need FDA approval before they may be modified. Our products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation and our business. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall of products in the event of material deficiencies, design defects or manufacturing defects. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design defects, or any other incidents related to our medical devices, including, but not limited to, adverse event recalls, cease and desist communications and any other product liability issues related to our medical devices. Any product recall would divert managerial and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers and our business. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing could be delayed, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. Our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which covers the procedures concerning (and documentation of) the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our devices. We also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. Moreover, failure to pass a Quality System Regulation inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays. Failure to take adequate corrective action could result in, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we have in all instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. Any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. Loss of the services of key management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations are dependent upon the skill, experience and performance of a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel, including our Chairman and our President and Chief Executive Officer. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of key management and technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we become involved in litigation regarding our patents or other intellectual property rights. The orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetics and skincare product industries have experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in this industry have used intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. Our products may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or the foreign equivalents thereto to determine the priority of inventions, by competitors or other companies. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, USPTO interference proceedings or the foreign equivalents thereto and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could: · subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties; · require disputed rights to be licensed from a third-party for royalties that may be substantial; · require us to cease manufacturing, using or selling such products or technology; or · result in the invalidation or loss of our patent rights. Any one of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Even if we are able to enter into licensing arrangements, costs associated with these transactions may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Accordingly, adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or our failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, or from using certain processes to make our products which would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, even if we are successful in such litigation, the expense of defending such claims could be material. In addition, we may in the future need to litigate to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Such enforcement of our intellectual property rights could involve counterclaims against us. Any future litigation or interference proceedings may result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. Intellectual property litigation relating to our products could also cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchases of our products, or cause healthcare professionals, agents and distributors to cease or lessen their support and marketing of our products. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Silipos, we may be subject to the Potential Poly-Gel Claims discussed under “Risk Factors—We may be adversely affected by legal actions or proceedings,” including intellectual property claims, brought by Poly-Gel. For any of these potential claims, SSL has generally agreed to indemnify us for losses up to $2.0 million, after which we would be liable for any such claims. For claims arising out of conduct that occurs after the closing of the Silipos transaction on September 30, 2004, we have agreed to indemnify SSL against losses. We would expect to vigorously defend against any claims brought by Poly-Gel. However, if such claims were brought, we may not ultimately prevail. 22 We may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of our proprietary technology. We hold a variety of patents, trademarks and copyrights in several countries, including the United States, that we are dependent on, including approximately 35 patents and patent applications in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions and a number of trademarks for technologies and brands related to our product offerings. The ownership of a patent or an interest in a patent does not always provide significant protection, and the patents and patent applications in which we have an interest may be challenged as to their validity or enforceability. Others may independently develop similar technologies or design around the patented aspects of our technology. Challenges may result in potentially significant harm to our business. We are also dependent upon a variety of methods and technologies that we regard as proprietary trade secrets. In addition, we have (i) a non-exclusive, paid up (except for certain administrative fees) license with Applied Elastomerics, Incorporated (the “AEI License”) dated as of November 30, 2001, as amended, to manufacture and sell certain products using mineral oil based gels under certain patents, during the life of such patents, and (ii) a license with Gerald Zook (the “Zook License”), effective as of January 1, 1997, to manufacture and sell certain products using mineral oil based gels under certain patents and know how, during the life of such patents, in exchange for sales based royalty payments, that is exclusive as to certain products but is non-exclusive as to others. We also have exclusive licenses to three types of orthotic devices which are patented in the United States and several foreign countries. We believe our trademarks and trade names, including Langer™, Sporthotics™, PPT™, Silipos™, Explorer Gel Liner™, Siloliner™, and Silopad™, contribute significantly to brand recognition for our products, and the inability to use one or more of these names could have a material adverse affect on our business. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, revenues generated by the products incorporating the technology licensed under the AEI License accounted for approximately 40.2% and 42.6% of our revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, revenues generated by products covered by the Zook License, as we understand the Zook License, accounted for approximately 23.9% and 17.0% of our revenues. Dr. Gerald P. Zook, the licensor of the Zook License, has commenced an arbitration proceeding alleging that a broader range of products sold by us are covered by the Zook License and that more license fees are payable by us under the Zook License. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent, trademark, unfair competition and other intellectual property laws as well as contractual agreements to protect our rights to such intellectual property. Due to the difficulty of monitoring unauthorized use of and access to intellectual property, however, such measures may not provide adequate protection. There can be no assurance that courts will always uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets. Further, although we seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees and consultants, we cannot assure you that: · these confidentiality agreements will not be breached; · we will have adequate remedies for any breach; · we will not be required to disclose such information to the FDA or other governmental agency in order for us to have the right to market a product; or · trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. Any finding of unenforceability, invalidity, non-infringement, or misappropriation of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we bring or become subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of our rights or of the rights of others or to determine the scope and 23 validity of our intellectual property rights, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Unfavorable results in such litigation could also result in the loss or compromise of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from third parties, or prevent us from selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our licenses, including the AEI License and the Zook License, could be terminated under a variety of circumstances including for material breach of the license agreements or in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the licensor. Any such termination could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our revenues and expenditures is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely affect our reported results of operations. While a majority of our business is denominated in United States dollars, we maintain operations in foreign countries, primarily the United Kingdom and Canada that require payments in the local currency and payments received from customers for goods sold in these countries are typically in the local currency. Consequently, fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States dollar and certain other currencies may affect our results of operations and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results. For example, the value of the U.S. dollar has fallen over the last year relative to the British pound and the Canadian dollar (which are the principal foreign currencies material to our business) causing an increase in our reported revenues when we convert the higher valued foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. If the value of the U.S. dollar were to increase in relation to those currencies in the future, there could be a negative effect on the value of our sales in those markets when we convert amounts to dollars when we prepare our financial statements. We do not engage in hedging or similar transactions to reduce these risks. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials or waste. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials or waste, and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites even if such contamination was not caused by us. We may incur significant expenses in the future relating to any failure to comply with environmental laws. Any such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonal factors and for other reasons. Revenues derived from our sales of orthotic devices has historically been significantly higher in North America in the warmer months of the year, while sales of orthotic devices in the United Kingdom has not historically experienced seasonality. We believe that this seasonality in North America results from the portion of our orthotics sales comprised of custom sandals which tend to be higher in the spring and summer months. Our experience has also been that physical activities in general tend to increase in warmer weather and that many patients of our customers in the healthcare profession tend to defer healthcare purchases until the spring months. Other factors which can result in quarterly variations include the timing and amount of new business generated by us, the timing of new product introductions, our revenue mix, acquisitions, the timing of additional selling and general and administrative expenses to support the anticipated growth and development of new business units and the competitive and fluctuating economic conditions in the orthopedic industry. 24 Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of likely future performance or annual operating results. Reductions in revenues or net income between quarters could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOL could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. Additionally, future utilization of net operating losses will be limited under existing tax law due to the change in control of Langer in 2001 and may be further limited as a result of pending or future offerings of our common stock. The amount of NOL carryforwards that we have claimed to date of approximately $6,400,000 has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL or any deductions or losses included in such calculation, and provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOL to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS were successful with respect to any challenge in respect of the amount of our NOL, the potential tax benefit of the NOL carryforwards to us could be substantially reduced. The recent changes in accounting standards regarding stock option plans could limit the desirability of granting stock options, which could harm our ability to attract and retain employees, and could also negatively impact our results of operations. A recent change in accounting standards is requiring all public companies to treat the fair value of stock options granted to employees as an expense effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. When this change becomes mandatory, we and other companies will be required to record a compensation expense equal to the fair value of each stock option granted. Currently, we are generally not required to record compensation expense in connection with stock option grants. When we are required to expense the fair value of stock option grants, it may reduce the attractiveness to us of granting stock options because of the additional expense associated with these grants, which would negatively impact our reported results of operations. For example, had we been required to expense stock option grants by applying the measurement provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” our recorded net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 of approximately $4,557,000 would have been increased by approximately $2,837,000 (of which approximately $766,000 would have represented periodic expense relating to employee stock options granted and $2,071,000 would have represented expenses relating to the acceleration of the vesting of certain options (See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Stock Options”), to a net loss of approximately $7,394,000, and our recorded net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 of approximately $375,000 would have been reduced by approximately $521,000, to a net loss of approximately $146,000, and our recorded net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003 of approximately $5,000 would have been increased by approximately $147,000, to a net loss of approximately $152,000, net of tax. Nevertheless, stock options are an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program. Accordingly, when we are required to expense stock option grants, our future results of operations will be negatively impacted, as could our willingness to use stock options as an employee recruitment and retention tool. 25 Risks Related to Our Common Stock One stockholder has the ability to significantly influence the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate action requiring stockholder approval. As of March 27, 2006, Warren B. Kanders, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, in his capacity as sole manager and voting member of Langer Partners, LLC (“Langer Partners”) and the sole stockholder of Kanders & Company, Inc., may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of 2,913,523 shares, or approximately 26.5% of our outstanding common stock. As of March 27, 2006, current executive officers and directors, including Mr. Kanders, beneficially own an aggregate of 4,026,002 shares, or approximately 30.3% of our outstanding common stock, which excludes 1,077,580 shares beneficially owned by Andrew H. Meyers, who ceased to be an officer on December 31, 2005 and a director on March 24, 2006. Consequently, Mr. Kanders, acting alone or together with our other officers and directors, has the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as a change in control. Langer Partners is party to an agreement with Oracle Investment Management, Inc. (“Oracle”), the beneficial owner of some of our outstanding 4% convertible subordinated notes due August 31, 2006. Pursuant to the agreement, Langer Partners agreed not to, without the prior written consent of Oracle, sell, assign, pledge or otherwise transfer any shares of our common stock owned by Langer Partners until such time as Oracle sells or otherwise transfers one-third or more of the 4% convertible subordinated notes held by it, or shares of common stock received upon conversion of the notes. Oracle has not converted or transferred any of the 4% convertible subordinated notes to date. Oracle is considered to beneficially own 6.3% of our outstanding common stock. Langer Partners further agreed with Oracle to vote all shares of Common Stock owned by Langer Partners in favor of so many nominees of Oracle to our Board of Directors as is equal, on a percentage basis, to the aggregate percentage of our common stock owned by Oracle on a fully diluted basis. Under this arrangement, we believe Oracle would be currently entitled to designate one Board nominee pursuant to this right. However, Oracle has not to date nominated a director. The price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be volatile, which could affect a stockholder’s return on investment. There has been significant volatility in the stock market and in particular in the market price and trading volume of securities of orthopedic and other health care companies, which has often been unrelated to the performance of the companies. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations, and we expect it to continue to be subject to such fluctuations for the foreseeable future. We believe the reasons for these fluctuations include, in addition to general market volatility, the relatively thin level of trading in our stock, and the relatively low public float. Therefore, variations in financial results, announcements of material events, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the health care industry, other developments affecting us or our competitors or general price and volume fluctuations in the market are among the many factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Shares of our common stock have been thinly traded in the past. Although a trading market for our common stock exists, the trading volume has not been significant and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or, if developed, be sustained in the future. As a result of the thin trading market or “float” for our stock, the 26 market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade in the future. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq National Market. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to investors and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration stockholder’s interest may be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock than other investors, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. We have a significant amount of convertible indebtedness outstanding and may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in connection with these and other outstanding securities and in connection with future acquisitions and our growth plans; any such issuances of additional shares could adversely affect our stock price. On October 31, 2001, we sold $14,589,000 of our 4% convertible subordinated notes due August 31, 2006 (the “Convertible Notes”) in a private placement. In June 2005, $150,000 of the Convertible Notes were converted into 25,000 shares of our common stock leaving a balance of $14,439,000 outstanding. The remaining Convertible Notes are convertible at any time into approximately 2,406,500 shares of our common stock, at a conversion price of $6.00 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. The conversion of our Convertible Notes could result in dilution in the value of the shares of our outstanding stock and the voting power represented thereby. The effect of the conversion of all of our outstanding Convertible Notes due August 31, 2006 would be to increase outstanding shares and dilute current shareholders by approximately 19.5% at December 31, 2005. In addition, the conversion price of our Convertible Notes may be lowered under the conversion price adjustment provisions of the notes in certain circumstances, including if we issue common stock at a net price per share less than the conversion price then in effect or if we issue rights, warrants or options entitling the recipients to subscribe for or purchase shares of our common stock at a price per share less than the conversion price (after taking into account any consideration we received for such rights, warrants or options). A reduction in the conversion price may result in the issuance of an additional number of shares upon the conversion of our Convertible Notes. We also have a significant number of stock options and warrants outstanding. We anticipate issuing additional shares of our common stock and may also issue additional securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for common stock to finance acquisitions or for other reasons in the future. The number of outstanding shares of our common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future is, therefore, likely to increase substantially. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions or financings may be more likely to sell large quantities of their 27 common stock, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than would otherwise be obtained. If our security holders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following this offering, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate and may require us to issue greater amounts of our common stock to finance acquisitions. Additional shares sold to finance acquisitions and conversions, exercises and exchanges of other securities for common stock may also dilute our earnings per share. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits publicly-held Delaware corporations to which it applies from engaging in a “business combination” (generally including mergers, consolidations and sales of 10% or more of the corporation’s assets) with an “interested stockholder” (generally defined as a person owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation, subject to certain exceptions) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in our stock price that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our stock. It could also discourage, delay or prevent another company from merging with us or acquiring us, even if our stockholders were to consider such a merger or acquisition to be favorable. Additionally, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 250,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further action or vote by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Such provisions could adversely affect the holders of common stock in a variety of ways, including by potentially discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of us and by diluting our earnings per share. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for working capital, repayment of indebtedness, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 28 