Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below, actual results could differ materially from those mentioned in any forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition, and the price of our common stock, could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations We have a history of net losses and may incur additional losses in the future. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had consolidated net losses of $8.4 million and $13.6 million, respectively. We face the risk that these losses may continue beyond 2009. In order for us to achieve and maintain consistent profitability from our operations, we must achieve product revenue above current levels. We may increase our operating expenses as we attempt to expand our product lines and to the extent we acquire other businesses and products. As a result, we may need to increase our revenues significantly to achieve sustainable profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve sustainable profitability. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. A write-off of intangible assets may adversely affect our results of operations. In the year ended December 30, 2009, we recorded a $1.0 million impairment relating to our Twincraft customer list and a $4.7 million impairment to the goodwill associated with Twincraft. This impairment was based upon the results of an independent valuation of the Company’s identifiable intangible assets and goodwill at October 1, 2009. In the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $2.4 million impairment, related to our Twincraft customer list and a $3.3 million impairment to the goodwill associated with Twincraft. At December 31, 2009, our total assets include intangible assets of $19.2 million, which includes goodwill of $11.2 million acquired in connection with prior acquisitions. We evaluate on a regular basis whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate that all or a portion of the carrying amount of goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable in which case a charge to earnings is required. In the future, we may need to record additional provision(s) for impairment, and such provision(s) may be material, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our financial condition and results of operations. The current unsettled economic environment increases the likelihood of additional impairments in the future. We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness. We anticipate needing to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the $28,880,000 of our 5% Convertible Notes due December 7, 2011, as we do not expect to have sufficient cash from operations to repay such indebtedness in full at maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A failure to refinance our indebtedness could have a materially adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. Our business plan relies on certain assumptions for the markets for our products which, if incorrect, may adversely affect our profitability. We believe that various demographics and industry-specific trends will help drive growth in the medical and personal care markets, including: • an aging population with broad medical coverage, increased disposable income and longer life expectancy; 16 • a growing emphasis on physical fitness, leisure sports and conditioning, which will continue to lead to increased injuries; • increasing awareness and use of non-invasive devices for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation purposes; and • an increase in the utilization of personal care products for various applications, including cleansing, cosmetic and for the treatment of various conditions. These demographics and trends are uncertain. The projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or do not materialize, or if alternative treatments to those offered by our products gain widespread acceptance. The growth of our personal care business depends on the successful development and introduction of new products and services. The growth of our personal care business depends on the success of existing products and services, including the manufacturing capabilities of our Twincraft subsidiary, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of customer acceptance and reaction from competitors. There can be no assurances that our scar management products will achieve market acceptance or be as effective as we had expected. In addition, our ability to create new products and new manufacturing services, and to sustain existing products and services, is affected by whether we can: • develop and fund technological innovations; • receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection; • obtain governmental approvals and registrations of regulated products and manufacturing operations; • comply with Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Consumer Product Safety Commission, and other governmental regulations; and • successfully anticipate consumer needs. The failure to develop and launch successful new products and provide new and competitive manufacturing services could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Rising material and other costs and our increasing dependence on key suppliers could adversely impact our profitability. Raw and packaging material commodities are subject to wide price variations. Increases in the costs of these commodities and other costs, such as energy costs, may adversely affect the Company’s profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies. Of particular importance is the price of soap base, the largest raw material used in the production of soap, representing over 54.0% of Twincraft’s raw material purchases for 2009. Soap base pricing is highly correlated to petroleum prices and soap base escalated by more than 80% in 2008 from 2007 prices. After peaking in May 2008, soap base pricing has declined. We were not able to fully pass these price increases on to our customers during 2008 and can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Since petroleum has recently been subject to dramatic price volatility, there can be no assurance that Twincraft’s soap base costs will not increase in the future which would have a negative impact on our gross profit and our net income. Changes in the requirements of our personal care customers and increasing dependence on key customers may adversely affect our business. Our personal care products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which is experiencing increased trade concentration. With the growing trend toward consolidation, we are increasingly dependent on key customers. They may use their bargaining strength to demand lower prices, higher trade discounts, allowances or slotting fees, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the requirements of our customers, such as inventory de-stocking, and other conditions. 17 Our business is highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not achieve future growth. The orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic, skincare and personal care markets are highly competitive. Certain of our competitors in these markets have more resources and experience, as well as more recognizable trademarks for products similar to those sold by us. In addition, the market for orthopedic devices and related products is characterized by new product development and corresponding obsolescence of existing products. Our competitors may develop new techniques, therapeutic procedures or alternative products that are more effective than our current technology or products or that render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive, which could cause a decrease in orders. Such decreases would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to develop successful new products or enhance existing products, obtain regulatory clearances and approval of such products, and market such products in a commercially viable manner or gain market acceptance for such products. Failure to develop, license or market new products and product enhancements could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, which could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. We expect that the level of competition faced by us may increase in the future. Some competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and technical resources than us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetic, skincare and personal care markets. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to raise adequate financing to fund our operations and growth prospects. Our product expansion programs, debt servicing requirements, targeted acquisition strategy, and existing operations will require substantial capital resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow or obtain sufficient additional financing to meet these requirements. In May 2007, we negotiated and executed a $20 million asset-based lending facility with Wachovia Bank, National Association. Subsequent amendments to the facility have reduced maximum availability to $12 million. This facility, alone, may not be adequate to supply the amount of capital that may be required in the event of any material acquisition. As of February 28, 2010, our availability under the credit facility was approximately $7.6 million. Any material acquisition is subject to the approval of Wachovia. If we do not have adequate resources and cannot obtain additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may be required to reduce operating costs by altering and delaying our business plan or otherwise radically altering our business practices. Failure to meet our future capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOL could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. Additionally, future utilization of net operating losses may be limited under existing tax law due to the change in control of PC Group in 2001 and may be further limited as a result of pending or future offerings of our common stock. The amount of NOL carryforwards that we have claimed to date of approximately $21.9 million has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL or any deductions or losses included in such calculation, and provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOL to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS were successful with respect to any challenge in respect of the amount of our NOL, the potential tax benefit of the NOL carryforwards to us could be substantially reduced. 18 Recent turmoil across various sectors of the financial markets may negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition and/or operating results. Recently, the various sectors of the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by disruption in the credit markets and availability of credit and other financing, the failure, bankruptcy, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing necessary to effectively execute our strategic reevaluation strategy, the ability of our customers and suppliers to continue to operate their businesses, the demand for our products or the ability to obtain future financing which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current economic downturn could continue to result in a decrease in our future sales, earnings, and liquidity. Economic conditions have recently deteriorated significantly in the United States, and worldwide, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These conditions have resulted in a decline in our sales and earnings and could continue to impact our sales and earnings in the future. Sales of our products are impacted by downturns in the general economy primarily due to decreased discretionary spending by consumers. The general level of consumer spending is affected by a number of factors, including, among others, general economic conditions, inflation, and consumer confidence, all of which are generally beyond our control. Consumer purchases of our products declines during periods of economic downturn, when disposable income is lower. The economic downturn also impacts distributors, our primary customers, resulting in the inability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, if our retail customers are unable to sell our product or are unable to access credit, they may experience financial difficulties leading to bankruptcies. Substantially all our assets are pledged to a secured lender. On May 11, 2007, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Wachovia Bank, National Association, under which we have obtained a credit facility for loans and other financial accommodations of up to a current maximum of $12 million, of which approximately $7.6 million is available as of February 28, 2010. The amount of funds available to us under the credit facility is based primarily on our levels of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory, and as of the date of this report, we do not have any currently outstanding borrowings under the facility. Substantially all our assets, including assets acquired in the future, are pledged to the lender to secure our obligations to the lender. If we draw down funds under the credit facility and are unable to repay the funds when due, or are otherwise in default of the financial covenants and related obligations under the credit facility, the lender would have the right to foreclose upon our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, this credit facility with Wachovia Bank expires on September 30, 2011. Although we intend to extend or replace this credit facility on or prior to maturity, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A failure to extend or replace our credit facility could have a materially adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by legal actions or proceedings. In the normal course of business, we may be subject to claims and litigation in the areas of general liability, including claims of employees, and claims, litigation or other liabilities as a result of acquisitions we have completed. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict and we cannot provide you with any assurance that an action or proceeding will not be commenced against us, or that we will prevail in any such action or proceeding. An unfavorable resolution of any legal action or proceeding could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 19 We rely heavily on our relationships with distributors and their relationships with health care practitioners for marketing our products, and the failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. Our marketing success depends largely upon our arrangements with distributors and their expertise and relationships with customers such as podiatrists, orthopedists, orthopedic surgeons, dermatologists, cosmetic and plastic surgeons, occupational and physical rehabilitation professionals, prosthetists, orthotists and other health care professionals in the marketplace. Failure of our products to retain the support of these surgeons and other specialists, or the failure of our products to secure and retain similar support from leading surgeons and other specialists, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our failure to maintain relationships with our distributors for marketing our products, or their failure to maintain relationships with health care professionals, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We enter into multi-year contracts with customers that can impact our results. We enter into multi-year contracts with some of our customers which include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on our margins and operating income. While we have a diverse customer base, and no customer or distributor constituted more than 11.0% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on our consolidated results of operations. The nature of our business could subject us to potential product liability and other claims. The sale of orthotic and prosthetic products and other biomechanical devices and personal care products entails the potential risk of physical injury to patients and other end users and an inherent risk of product liability, lawsuits and product recalls. We currently maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of $1 million per occurrence and for an annual aggregate maximum subject to a deductible of $25,000. However, we cannot assure you that this coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, will be obtainable at a reasonable cost. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk that our claims may be excluded and that our insurers may become insolvent. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of a product liability claim, our reputation could be harmed and we may have to recall some of our products, which could result in significant costs to us and have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are significant risks associated with acquiring and integrating businesses. An element of our growth strategy may include targeted acquisitions, that is, the acquisition of businesses and assets that will complement our current business or products, increase size, expand our geographic scope of operations, and otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities, obtain financing for acquisitions, make acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or successfully acquire and/or integrate identified targets. Additionally, competition for acquisition opportunities in our industries may escalate which would increase the costs to us of completing acquisitions or prevent us from making acquisitions. An acquisition may also subject the Company to other risks and costs, including: • loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • our ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits expected from an acquisition; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; and • assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Twincraft, Inc. in 2007, we face the risk of incurring potential liabilities of that company which may not be covered by the limited indemnification provisions in the acquisition agreement. The above risks could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Health care regulations could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are subject to governmental regulation and supervision in the United States at the federal and state levels and abroad. These regulations include regulations of the FDA of our medical and personal care products, and other laws and regulations governing our business relationships involved in the marketing of our medical devices, products and services. When we acquire a new company, we may be subject to certain disclosure, enrollment and other requirements regarding the acquired company’s ongoing operations. In addition, Twincraft, our soap manufacturing business (which is part of our personal care segment) is also subject to potentially far reaching regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, FDA and FTC, which may require us to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Collectively, our products are actively regulated by various government entities as to their safety and quality, and additional regulatory obligations apply as to our medical products regulated as medical devices and the soap products regulated as OTC drug products. If we fail to obtain the necessary product approvals or otherwise comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in government authorities taking punitive actions against us, including, among other things, imposing fines and penalties on us or preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products. In addition, health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor or inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the statute has been violated. In connection with our original acquisition of Regal, we subsequently acquired the membership interests of Regal Medical Supply, LLC, in order to effectuate the original intent of the parties and ensure that its provider numbers and taxpayer identification number were effectively acquired with the Company’s purchase of Regal. No assurance can be given that the federal government will interpret these requirements, which are often highly technical and subject to interpretation, in the same manner as the Company has, or that regulatory authorities will not question the manner in which Regal was conducted prior to acquisition of the membership interests of Regal Medical Supply, LLC, and subsequent to our divestiture of it. Any violations of these laws, including those relating to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement for the period prior to the acquisition of the membership interests of Regal Medical Supply, LLC, or subsequent to our divestiture of it could result in claims for repayment of prior reimbursements or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in government and other third-party payer reimbursement levels could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our medical segment. Our medical products are sold by us through our network of national, regional, independent and international distributors who sell our products to hospitals, doctors and other health care providers, many of whom are reimbursed for the health care services provided to their patients by third-party payers, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Many of these programs set maximum reimbursement levels for certain of our products sold in the United States. We may be unable to sell our products through our distributors on a profitable basis if third-party payers deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement, or if our costs of production increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels. The percentage of our products for which a health care provider or ultimate consumer receives reimbursement from Medicare or other insurance programs may increase as the portion of the United States population over age 65 continues to grow, making us more vulnerable to reimbursement level reductions by these organizations. Reduced government reimbursement levels could result in reduced private payer reimbursement levels because of indexing of Medicare fee schedules by certain third-party payers. Furthermore, the health care industry is experiencing a trend towards cost containment as government and private insurers seek to contain health care costs by imposing lower reimbursement rates and negotiating reduced contract rates with service providers. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. The ability of hospitals supported by such systems to purchase our products is dependent, in part, upon public budgetary constraints. Canada and some European countries, for example, have tightened reimbursement rates. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payers outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline, which could adversely affect our net sales and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Our business is subject to substantial government regulation relating to medical products, personal care products, and services that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research, development, formulation, manufacture and marketing of our products. In the United States, the FDA has broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, formulation, marketing and sale of medical devices, and other medical products, and many of our personal care products. FDA’s regulation of personal care products includes ingredient, quality, and labeling requirements. The Consumer Products Safety Commission has authority over our non-cosmetic soap products and could require cautionary labeling for products viewed as having irritant properties. The FTC has broad authority over all product advertising to ensure statements are truthful and non-misleading. Overseas, these activities are subject to foreign governmental regulation, which is in many respects similar to regulation in the United States but which vary from country to country. United States and foreign regulation continues to evolve, which could result in additional burdens on our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. Additionally, the cost of maintaining personnel and systems necessary to comply with applicable regulations is substantial and increasing. Some of our medical products may require or will require regulatory clearance or approval prior to being marketed. The process of obtaining these clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary clearances or approvals for testing or marketing our products. Moreover, regulatory clearances and approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed or other restrictions or requirements that reduce the value to us of the products. Regulatory authorities may also withdraw product clearances or approvals if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if any problems related to our products develop following initial marketing. We are also subject to strict regulation with respect to our manufacturing operations. This regulation includes testing, control and documentation requirements, and compliance with the Quality Systems Regulation and current good manufacturing practices, which is monitored through inspections by regulatory authorities. Our profitability depends, in part, upon our and our distributors’ ability to obtain and maintain all necessary certificates, permits, approvals and clearances from the United States and foreign regulatory authorities and to operate in compliance with applicable regulations. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to receive necessary approvals, the loss of previously obtained clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The portion of our personal care business that involves the sale of acne soaps and antimicrobial drug products is subject to substantial government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Drug products are subject to substantial government regulation in the United States that affects the research, development, formulation, manufacture, storage, distribution, labeling, and marketing of the products. This includes strict regulation of all facets of the manufacturing process including production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, holding and distribution, testing, and documentation. Compliance with current good manufacturing practice (GMP) regulations and adverse event reporting and recordkeeping requirements are monitored through FDA inspections. We are also subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of drug products. Twincraft has a dedicated manufacturing line for soaps that are subject to drug regulations. Failure to pass a GMP inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays. Failure to take adequate corrective action could result in, among other things, significant fines, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we have in all instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. Any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Twincraft’s acne soaps are subject to FDA regulation as OTC drug products under the final monograph or regulation for topical antiacne products. Any deviation from the specific ingredients, labeling requirements, or conditions described in the final monograph or the general drug regulations could misbrand the product and render it an unapproved new drug. This could result in a variety of enforcement actions against the Company and/or the product as well as the reformulation or relabeling of our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Twincraft’s antimicrobial or antibacterial soaps and cleansers are subject to regulation as OTC drug products under the tentative final monograph for topical antimicrobial OTC drug products. It is unclear when the FDA will finalize this tentative final monograph, but if Twincraft products do not meet conditions specified in the monograph when finalized, we would need to reformulate or relabel our products or discontinue selling the affected products. Any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 If the FDA, FTC, or CPSC disagrees with our characterization of our other skincare products or product claims and determines that they are drug products, this could result in a variety of enforcement actions which could require the reformulation or relabeling of our products, the submission of information in support of the products’ claims or the safety and effectiveness of our products, or more punitive action, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The portion of our personal care products business that involves the sale of soaps as consumer products is subject to substantial government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business. That portion of Twincraft’s business that is subject to the CPSC requirements must comply with new certification requirements and applicable testing requirements under the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (“CPSIA”). Under the CPSIA, every manufacturer of a product subject to a consumer product safety rule, or similar rule, ban, standard, or regulation, must certify to compliance based on a test of each product or upon a reasonable testing program. Consumer products labeled for pediatric use (12 and under) may have additional requirements. The CPSIA also requires companies to report deviations from any CPSC standard, ban, or similar rule and granted the CPSC significantly enhanced recall authority. Failure to comply with CPSC requirements could result in significant penalties and/or fines and could significantly affect our business. The development and marketing of new product lines, including any scar management products, is subject to government regulation that could delay the planned launch of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any new product lines, including any scar management products, which we may introduce will be subject to government regulation which could affect the research, development and formulation of the products. In the United States, the products may be subject to regulation by the FDA and FTC and various other federal and state laws and requirements. Overseas, these products may be subject to foreign governmental regulation which may in many respects be similar to the US, but which could vary from country to country. Depending on product claims and formulations, such products may be regulated as cosmetics, devices, drugs, or combination drug-devices. There is no assurance that the products will be successfully developed or launched in the current year or at any time in the future or that the FDA or FTC will agree with our characterization of the products as cosmetics or our product claims. This could result in a variety of enforcement actions which could require the reformulation or relabeling of our products, further safety or clinical testing of the products, the submission of information in support of the product claims or the safety of the products, or more punitive action, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We anticipate developing and launching in subsequent years scar management products which may be regulated as cosmetics, devices, drugs, or combination drug-device products, depending on the product claims and formulations. Some or all of the products may require extensive clinical testing and regulatory clearance or approval prior to being marketed. The process of conducting these studies and obtaining the necessary clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive and there is no assurance that we will ultimately develop these products or obtain the necessary clearances or approvals for testing or marketing these products. Once launched, we would be subject to continual oversight and regulation by the FDA, FTC and other regulatory bodies as to product safety, quality and claims. If regulated as devices, drugs, or combination products, our manufacturing process would be subject to strict regulation. This regulation includes testing, control and documentation requirements, compliance with the QSR and/or current good manufacturing practice requirements, and FDA inspection. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to receive necessary approvals or clearances, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Modifications to our marketed devices may require FDA regulatory clearances or approvals and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until such clearances or approvals are obtained. The medical products we market in the United States have obtained market clearance through the Premarket Notification process under Section 510(k) of the FFDCA or are exempt from the 510(k) Premarket Notification requirements. We have modified some of our products and product labeling since obtaining 510(k) clearance. We believe those changes did not trigger the requirement for a new 510(k) filing, but if FDA were to disagree, we would be required to submit new 510(k) Premarket Notifications for the modifications to our existing products. We may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA for failure to file the 510(k) submissions for the product changes and be required to stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the new 510(k) Premarket Notification submissions. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination than we expect, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline or otherwise adversely impact our growth. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will be subject to the more costly, lengthy and uncertain Premarket Approval, or PMA, process. Products that are approved through the PMA process generally need FDA approval before they may be modified. 23 Our products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation and our business. The FDA, the Consumer Products Safety Commission and foreign regulatory authorities have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall of products if they violate the applicable law or pose a risk of injury or gross deception. Typical reasons for recalls are material deficiencies, design defects or manufacturing defects or consumer complaints. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design defects, adulteration, misbranding, or any other incidents related to our medical devices or personal care products, including, but not limited to, adverse event reports, cease and desist communications and any other product liability issues related to our products. Any product recall would divert managerial and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers and our business. If our medical device products fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing could be delayed, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. Our device manufacturing processes are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which covers the procedures concerning (and documentation of) the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our devices. We also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. Moreover, failure to pass a Quality System Regulation inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays. Failure to take adequate corrective action could result in, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we have in all instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. Any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. Loss of the services of key management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations are dependent upon the skill, experience and performance of a relatively small group of key management and technical personnel, including our Chairman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and our head of our personal care business segment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of key management and technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Chairman and our President and Chief Executive Officer devote only as much of their time as is necessary to the affairs of the Company and also devote time serving in various capacities with other public and private entities, including entities owned and controlled by Mr. Kanders. As part of the Company’s strategic realignment, we are exploring options to bring in new CEO leadership who will be better equipped at assisting the realigned Company in growing its revenues in its core markets and taking advantages of external growth opportunities. If appropriate as a result of strategic changes in the nature of the Company’s business, arrangements with certain executive officers of the Company may be adjusted so they only devote as much as is necessary to the affairs of the Company and serve other public and private entities including Kanders & Company in various capacities. While management believes any such non-exclusive arrangements involving Kanders & Company will benefit the Company by availing itself of certain of the resources of Kanders & Company, the other business interests of these individuals could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we become involved in litigation regarding our patents or other intellectual property rights. The orthopedic, orthotic, prosthetics and personal care product industries have experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in this industry have used intellectual property litigation in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage. Furthermore, third parties may have patents of which we are unaware, or may be awarded new patents, that may materially adversely affect our ability to market, distribute and sell our products. Accordingly, our products, including, but not limited to, our orthopedic gel-based products, may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”), or the foreign equivalents thereto to determine the priority of inventions, by competitors or other companies. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, USPTO interference proceedings or the foreign equivalents thereto and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could: 24 • subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; • require disputed rights to be licensed from a third-party for royalties that may be substantial; • require us to cease manufacturing, using or selling such products or technology; or • result in the invalidation or loss of our patent rights. Any one of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Even if we are able to enter into licensing arrangements, costs associated with these transactions may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. Accordingly, adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or our failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, or from using certain processes to make our products which would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, even if we are successful in such litigation, the expense of defending such claims could be material. In addition, we may in the future need to litigate to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Such enforcement of our intellectual property rights could involve counterclaims against us. Any future litigation or interference proceedings may result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. Intellectual property litigation relating to our products could also cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchases of our products, or cause health care professionals, agents and distributors to cease or lessen their support and marketing of our products. We may not be able to maintain the confidentiality, or assure the protection, of our proprietary technology. We hold or have the exclusive right to use a variety of patents, trademarks and copyrights in several countries, including the United States that we are dependent on, including patents and patent applications in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions and a number of trademarks for technologies and brands related to our product offerings. The ownership of a patent or an interest in a patent does not always provide significant protection, and the patents and patent applications in which we have an interest may be challenged as to their validity or enforceability. Others may independently develop similar technologies or design around the patented aspects of our technology. Challenges may result in potentially significant harm to our business. We are also dependent upon a variety of methods and technologies that we regard as proprietary trade secrets. In addition, we have (i) a non-exclusive, paid up (except for certain administrative fees) license with Applied Elastomerics, Incorporated (the “AEI License”) dated as of November 30, 2001, as amended, to manufacture and sell certain products using mineral oil based gels under certain patents, during the life of such patents, and (ii) a license with Gerald Zook (the “Zook License”), effective as of January 1, 1997, to manufacture and sell certain products using mineral oil based gels under certain patents and know how, during the life of such patents, in exchange for sales based royalty payments, that is exclusive as to certain products but is non-exclusive as to others. We believe our trademarks and trade names, including Silipos®, Gel-Care®, Siloliner®, DuraGel® and Silopad®, contribute significantly to brand recognition for our products, and the inability to use one or more of these names could have a material adverse affect on our business. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, revenues generated by the products incorporating the technology licensed under the AEI License accounted for approximately 23.0% and 22.4% of our revenues, respectively. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent, trademark, unfair competition and other intellectual property laws as well as contractual agreements to protect our rights to such intellectual property. Due to the difficulty of monitoring unauthorized use of and access to intellectual property, however, such measures may not provide adequate protection. There can be no assurance that courts will always uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets. Further, although we seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees and consultants, we cannot assure you that: 25 · these confidentiality agreements will not be breached; · we will have adequate remedies for any breach; · we will not be required to disclose such information to the FDA or other governmental agency in order for us to have the right to market a product; or · trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. Any finding of unenforceability, invalidity, non-infringement, or misappropriation of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we bring or become subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of our rights or of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of our intellectual property rights, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Unfavorable results in such litigation could also result in the loss or compromise of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from third parties, or prevent us from selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our licenses, including the AEI License and the Zook License, could be terminated under a variety of circumstances including for material breach of the license agreements or in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the licensor. Any such termination could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our revenues and expenditures is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely affect our reported results of operations. While a majority of our business is denominated in United States dollars, in 2009 we maintained operations in Canada that required payments in the local currency and payments received from customers for goods sold in foreign countries are typically in the local currency. Consequently, fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States dollar and certain other currencies may affect our results of operations and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results. For example, the value of the U.S. dollar has increased over the last year relative to the British pound (which is the principal foreign currency material to our business) causing a decrease in our reported revenues when we convert the higher valued foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. If the value of the U.S. dollar were to increase in relation to that currency in the future, there could be a negative effect on the value of our sales in that market when we convert amounts to dollars when we prepare our financial statements. We do not engage in hedging or similar transactions to reduce these risks. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials or waste. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials or waste, and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites even if such contamination was not caused by us. We may incur significant expenses in the future relating to any failure to comply with environmental laws. Any such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonal factors and for other reasons. Factors which can result in quarterly variations include the timing and amount of new business generated by us, the timing of new product introductions, product launches into new markets, our revenue mix, acquisitions, the timing of additional selling and general and administrative expenses to support the anticipated growth and development of new business units and the competitive and fluctuating economic conditions in which we operate. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of likely future performance or annual operating results. Reductions in revenues or net income between quarters could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. 26 We may be subject to claims and liabilities with respect to the businesses we previously divested that may result in adverse outcomes to our business. In 2008, we completed the divestiture of all but our current Silipos and Twincraft businesses. When we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of certain pre-transaction liabilities. Although the acquirers generally assumed liabilities relating to those businesses, we may be subject to claims and lawsuits by third parties, including former vendors, employees and consultants of ours, related to actions or inaction by an acquirer. In addition, our divestiture agreements provided customary indemnifications to purchasers of our businesses or assets. We agreed to indemnify the acquirers against specified losses in connection with the sold businesses. If an acquirer makes an indemnification claim or a third party commences an action against us or an acquirer, we may incur substantial expense and our management may have to devote a substantial amount of time resolving such claims or defending against such actions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to expend substantial resources trying to determine which party has responsibility for a claim, even if we are ultimately found to be not responsible. In connection with our 2008 divestitures, we will in the future be subject to certain non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions. The non-competition and non-solicitation provisions of the agreement we entered into when we disposed of the Langer branded custom orthotics and related products business provides that for a period of five years after the closing of the sale (October 24, 2008), neither we nor any of our affiliates are permitted: (i) to engage in any business that competes with the business of producing and selling high-quality custom orthotic devices, ankle and foot orthotics and prefabricated foot products for the long-term care, orthopedic, orthotic and prosthetic markets, (ii) to own, be employed by, provide financing to, consult with or otherwise render services to any person who is engaged in such business (with certain exceptions); and (iii) to solicit or induce any employee, distributor, sales representative, agent or contract of the purchaser or any of its affiliates to terminate his or its employment or other relationship with the purchaser or any of its affiliates. In connection with the sale of Regal, the Company agreed that for a period of three years following the sale (June 11, 2008), the Company would not compete with Regal by engaging in any business providing contracture management services in the long-term care market and rehabilitation settings by assisting facility personnel in product selection, product fitting and billing services; provided, however, that such restrictions shall not be applicable to any successor in interest to all or any portion of the Company’s medical products and/or personal care products segments as described in the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. The non-competition and non-solicitation prohibitions will restrict the business opportunities available to us in the future. Risks Related to Our Common Stock One stockholder has the ability to significantly influence the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate action requiring stockholder approval. As of March 15, 2010, Warren B. Kanders, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, in his capacity as sole manager and voting member of Langer Partners, LLC (“Langer Partners”) and the sole stockholder of Kanders & Company, Inc., may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of 2,115,906 shares, or approximately 27.0% of our outstanding common stock. (This amount does not include options which if exercised would provide 615,000 additional shares of common stock and restricted stock awards of 500,000 shares, which presently will vest only if and when the Company has earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of at least $10,000,000 in any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, commencing with the quarter beginning January 1, 2007, or 1,126,199 shares issuable upon conversion of the 5% Convertible Notes). As of March 15, 2010, current executive officers and directors, including Mr. Kanders, beneficially own an aggregate of 3,093,840 shares (excluding the options and restricted stock awards, shares issuable upon conversion of the 5% Convertible Notes, and shares associated with unexercised warrants referenced above) or approximately 39.4% of our outstanding common stock. Consequently, Mr. Kanders, acting alone or together with our other officers and directors, has the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as a change in control. 27 The price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be volatile, which could affect a stockholder’s return on investment. There has been significant volatility in the stock market and in particular in the market price and trading volume of securities, which has often been unrelated to the performance of the companies. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations, and we expect it to continue to be subject to such fluctuations for the foreseeable future. We believe the reasons for these fluctuations include, in addition to general market volatility, the relatively thin level of trading in our stock, and the relatively low public float. Therefore, variations in financial results, announcements of material events, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the health care industry, other developments affecting us or our competitors or general price and volume fluctuations in the market are among the many factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Shares of our common stock have been thinly traded in the past. The trading volume of our common stock has not been significant, and there may not be an active trading market for our common stock in the future. As a result of the thin trading market or “float” for our stock, the market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade in the future. Although our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we cannot provide any assurance that our common stock will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our shares of common stock are removed from listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our stock price and business opportunities may be adversely affected. On January 11, 2010, we received notice from the Office of General Counsel of the Nasdaq Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) that the Company’s request to transfer the listing of its common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market had been approved by the Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”) reviewing the Company’s listing. The transfer became effective at the opening of the market on January 13, 2010. The Company’s common stock continues to trade under the symbol “PCGR.” The Panel also granted the Company until July 19, 2010 to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market under Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). The Company submitted its request to the Panel to transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market in response to the letter the Company received from Nasdaq, previously disclosed on the Form 8-K filed by the Company on October 28, 2009, informing the Company that for 30 consecutive business days the Company’s common stock had not maintained the minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5,000,000 for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market under Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(C). The Nasdaq Capital Market is a continuous trading market that operates in substantially the same manner as the Nasdaq Global Market. Companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market must meet certain financial requirements and adhere to Nasdaq’s corporate governance standards. If our common stock were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, such delisting may have an adverse impact on the price of our shares of common stock, the volatility of the price of our shares, and/or the liquidity of an investment in our shares of common stock. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to investors and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our compensation strategy is to base a portion of the compensation payable to management and our directors on restricted stock awards and other equity-based compensation, to align the interests of directors and management with the interests of the stockholders. In 2007, we issued restricted stock awards for an aggregate of 955,000 shares to eight officers and directors, of which restricted stock awards for 872,500 shares to six officers and directors remain. These awards will vest if and when the Company achieves certain financial and operating targets or, in some cases, upon a change of control. None of the restricted stock awards granted in 2007 is presently vested. 28 We may also issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for any acquisitions we consummate. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration, stockholders’ interest may be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock than other investors, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. In January and May 2007, we issued an aggregate of 1,068,356 shares of our common stock as part of the consideration we paid for the Twincraft acquisition. We also issued 333,483 shares in connection with the Regal acquisition in 2007. We have a significant amount of convertible indebtedness outstanding and may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in connection with these and other outstanding securities and in connection with future acquisitions and our growth plans; any such issuances of additional shares could adversely affect our stock price. On December 8, 2006, we sold $28,880,000 of our 5% Convertible Notes in a private placement. At the date of issuance, the 5% Convertible Notes were convertible into 6,080,000 shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $4.75 per share. As a result of the anti-dilution provisions of the 5% Convertible Notes and the issuance of 1,068,356 shares of common stock in the Twincraft acquisition and 333,483 shares in the Regal acquisition, the 5% Convertible Notes are now convertible into 6,195,165 shares of our common stock, at a conversion price, as adjusted, of $4.6617 per share, subject to further adjustment in certain circumstances. The conversion of the 5% Convertible Notes could result in dilution in the value of the shares of our outstanding stock and the voting power represented thereby. The effect of the conversion of all of our outstanding 5% Convertible Notes would be to increase outstanding shares and dilute current shareholders by approximately 44.1% at March 15, 2010. In addition, the conversion price of our 5% Convertible Notes may be lowered under the conversion price adjustment provisions of the notes in certain circumstances, including if we issue common stock at a net price per share less than the conversion price then in effect or if we issue rights, warrants or options entitling the recipients to subscribe for or purchase shares of our common stock at a price per share less than the conversion price (after taking into account any consideration we received for such rights, warrants or options). A reduction in the conversion price would result in an increase in the number of shares issuable upon the conversion of our 5% Convertible Notes. We also have a significant number of stock options and warrants outstanding, and restricted stock awards which would vest if we achieve certain performance targets. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted FASB ASC 815-40 (prior authoritative literature: EITF 07-5 “Determining Whether an Instrument is Indexed to an Entity’s Own Stock”) and will adjust the conversion option in its convertible debt to its fair value in future reporting periods which may result in more volatility in operating results. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits publicly-held Delaware corporations to which it applies from engaging in a “business combination” (generally including mergers, consolidations and sales of 10% or more of the corporation’s assets) with an “interested stockholder” (generally defined as a person owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation, subject to certain exceptions) for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in our stock price that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our stock. It could also discourage, delay or prevent another company from merging with us or acquiring us, even if our stockholders were to consider such a merger or acquisition to be favorable. Additionally, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 250,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further action or vote by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Such provisions could adversely affect the holders of common stock in a variety of ways, including by potentially discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of us and by diluting our earnings per share. 29 We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for working capital, repayment of indebtedness, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 