Risk Factors – The Company’s business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.” A majority of the Swiss watch movements used in the manufacture of Movado, Ebel, Concord and ESQ watches are purchased from two suppliers, one of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of one of the Company’s competitors. Additionally, the Company does not have long-term supply commitments with its manufacturers and thus competes for production facilities with other organizations, some of which are larger and have greater resources. Any loss of an independent manufacturer, or the Company’s inability to deliver 15 quality goods in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on customer relations, brand image, net sales and results of operations. If the Company loses any of its license agreements, there may be significant loss of revenues and a negative effect on business. The Company has the right to produce, market and distribute watches under the brand names of ESQ, Coach, Tommy Hilfiger, HUGO BOSS, Juicy Couture and Lacoste pursuant to license agreements with the respective owners of those trademarks. There are certain minimum royalty payments as well as other requirements associated with these agreements. Failure to meet any of these requirements could result in the loss of the license. Additionally, after the term of any license agreement has concluded, thelicensor may decide not to renew with the Company. Any loss of one or more of the Company’s licenses could result in loss of future revenues which could adversely affect its financial condition. Changes in the sales mix of the Company’s products could impact gross profit margins. The individual brands that are sold by the Company are sold at a wide range of price points and yield a variety of gross profit margins. Thus, the mix of sales by brand can have an impact on the gross profit margins of the Company. If the Company’s sales mix shifts unfavorably toward brands with lower gross profit margins than the Company’s historical consolidated gross profit margin or if the mix of business changes significantly in the Movado Boutiques, it could have an adverse effect on the results of operations. The Company’s business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s sales are seasonal by nature. The Company’s U.S. sales are traditionally greater during the Christmas and holiday season. Internationally, major selling seasons center on significant local holidays that occur in late winter or early spring. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during these seasons depends upon the general level of retail sales at such times, as well as economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control. The second half of each year accounted for 49.9%, 57.0%, and 57.9% of the Company’s net sales for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. In fiscal 2009, the Company did not experience the usual seasonality of its business due to the downturn in the economy, which resulted in the percentage of net sales for the second half of the fiscal year not being comparable to that in previous years. If events or circumstances were to occur that negatively impact consumer spending during such holiday seasons, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales, profitability and results of operations. Sales in the Company’s retail stores are dependent upon customer foot traffic. In the United States, we are experiencing a significant slowdown in customer traffic. The success of the Company’s retail stores is, to a certain extent, dependent upon the amount of customer foot traffic generated by the mall or outlet center in which those stores are located. The majority of the Company’s Movado Boutiques are located in upscale regional shopping centers throughout the United States, while the Company’s outlet stores are located primarily near vacation destinations. 16 Factors that can affect customer foot traffic include: · the location of the mall; · the location of the Company’s store within the mall; · the other tenants in the mall; · the occupancy rate of the mall; · the success of mall and tenant advertising to attract customers; · increased competition in areas surrounding the mall; and · increased competition from shopping over the internet and other alternatives such as mail-order. Additionally, since a number of the Company’s outlet stores are located near vacation destinations, factors that affect travel could decrease mall traffic. Such factors include the price and supply of fuel, travel concerns and restrictions, international instability, terrorism and inclement weather. A reduction in foot traffic in relevant malls or shopping centers could have a material adverse effect on retail sales and profitability. If the Company is unable to maintain existing space or to lease new space for its retail stores in prime mall and outlet center locations or is unable to complete construction on a timely basis, the Company’s ability to achieve favorable results in its retail business could be adversely affected. The Company’s Boutiques and outlet stores are strategically located in the United States, respectively, in top malls and in outlet centers located primarily near vacation destinations. If the Company cannot maintain and secure locations in prime malls and outlet centers for both the Movado Boutiques and outlet businesses, it could jeopardize the operations of the stores and business plans for the future. Additionally, if the Company cannot complete construction in new stores within the planned timeframes, cost overruns and lost revenue could adversely affect the profitability of the retail segment. If the Company is unable to successfully implement its growth strategies, its future operating results could suffer. There are certain risks involved as the Company continues expanding its business through acquisitions, license agreements, joint ventures and new initiatives such as the Movado Boutique business. There is risk involved with each of these. Acquisitions and new license agreements require the Company to ensure that new brands will successfully complement the other brands in its portfolio. The Company assumes the risk that the new brand will not be viewed by the public as favorably as its other brands. In addition, the integration of an acquired company or licensed brand into the Company’s existing business can strain the Company’s current infrastructure with the additional work required and there can be no assurance that the integration of acquisitions or licensed brands will be successful or that acquisitions or licensed brands will generate sales increases. The Company needs to ensure it has the adequate human resources and systems in place to allow for successful assimilation of new businesses. The risk involved in the Movado Boutique business is that the Company will not be able to successfully implement its business model. In addition, the costs associated with leasehold improvements to current Boutiques and the costs associated with opening new Boutiques could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The inability to successfully implement its growth strategies could adversely affect the Company’s future financial condition and results of operations. 17 The loss or infringement of the Company’s trademarks or other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on future results of operations. The Company believes that its trademarks and other intellectual property rights are vital to the competitiveness and success of its business and therefore it takes all appropriate actions to register and protect them. There can be no assurance, however, that such actions will be adequate to prevent imitation of the Company’s products or infringement of its intellectual property rights, or that others will not challenge the Company’s rights, or that such rights will be successfully defended. In addition, six of the Company’s nine brands are subject to license agreements with third parties under which the Company is required to make royalty payments and perform other obligations. Default by the Company under any of these agreements could result in the licensor terminating the agreement and the Company losing its rights under the license. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries, including some in which the Company sells its products, may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, which could make it more difficult to successfully defend such challenges to them. The Company’s inability to obtain or maintain rights in its trademarks, including its licensed marks, could have an adverse effect on brand image and future results of operations. Fluctuations in the pricing of commodities or the cost of labor could adversely affect the Company’s ability to produce products at favorable prices. Some of the Company’s higher-end watch offerings are made with materials such as diamonds, precious metals and gold. The Company’s proprietary jewelry is manufactured with silver, gold and platinum, semi-precious and precious stones, and diamonds. The Company relies on independent contractors to manufacture and assemble the majority of its watch brands and its entire jewelry offering. A significant change in the prices of these commodities or the cost of third-party labor could adversely affect the Company’s business by: · reducing gross profit margins; · forcing an increase in suggested retail prices; which could lead to · decreasing consumer demand; which could lead to · higher inventory levels. Any and all of the above events could adversely affect the Company’s future cash flow and results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. The majority of the Company’s inventory purchases are denominated in Swiss francs. The Company operates under a hedging program which utilizes forward exchange contracts and purchased foreign currency options to mitigate foreign currency risk. If these hedge instruments are unsuccessful at minimizing the risk or are deemed ineffective, any fluctuation of the Swiss franc exchange rate could impact the future results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect relative prices at which the Company and its foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Additionally, a portion of the Company’s net sales are recorded in its foreign subsidiaries in a currency other than the local currency of that subsidiary. This predominantly occurs in the Company’s Hong Kong and Swiss subsidiaries when they sell to Euro-based customers. This exposure is not hedged by the Company. Any fluctuation in the Euro exchange rate in relation to the Hong Kong dollar and Swiss franc would have an effect on these sales that are recorded in Euro. The currency effect on these Euro sales has an 18 equal effect on their recorded gross profit since the costs of these sales are recorded in the entities’ respective local currency. Furthermore, since the Company’s consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries must be translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company’s reported revenues, earnings, financial position and the comparability of results of operations from period to period. The Grinberg family owns a majority of the voting power of the Company’s stock. Each share of common stock of the Company is entitled to one vote per share while each share of Class A Common Stock of the Company is entitled to ten votes per share. While the members of the Grinberg family do not own a majority of the Company’s outstanding common stock, by their significant holdings of Class A Common Stock they control a majority of the voting power represented by all outstanding shares of both classes of stock. Consequently, the Grinberg family is in a position to significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders including, but not limited to, the election of the Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to the Company’s certificate of incorporation, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of the Company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Grinberg family. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s stock price could fluctuate and possibly decline due to changes in revenue, operating results and cash flow. The Company’s revenue, results of operations and cash flow can be affected by several factors, some of which are not within its control. Those factors include, but are not limited to, those described as risk factors in this Item 1A and under “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1. Any or all of these factors could cause a decline in revenues or increased expenses, both of which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations. If the Company’s earnings failed to meet the expectations of the public in any given period, the Company’s stock price could fluctuate and possibly decline. If the Company were to lose its relationship with any of its key customers or distributors or any of such customers or distributors were to experience financial difficulties, there may be a significant loss of revenue and operating results. The Company’s customer base covers a wide range of distribution including national jewelry store chains, department stores, independent regional jewelers, licensed partner retail stores and a network of distributors in many countries throughout the world. The Company does not have long-term purchase contracts with its customers, nor does it have a significant backlog of unfilled orders. Customer purchasing decisions could vary with each selling season. A material change in the Company’s customers’ purchasing decisions could have an adverse effect on its revenue and operating results. As part of the Company’s unified Movado brand strategy announced on February 25, 2008, the Company streamlined the Movado brand wholesale distribution in the United States from 4,000 19 wholesale customer doors to approximately 2,600 doors, representing a 35% reduction, by the close of its fiscal year ending January 31, 2009. A wholesale customer door could be either a single store within a department store chain or an independent jewelry store. The strategy contemplated that a number of wholesale customers would continue to do business with the Company through their more profitable doors. There is a risk that these customers will have a negative response to the strategy of reducing the number of their doors that can sell Movado watches. This could potentially damage current relationships and hinder future business done with these customers. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition usually without requiring collateral. Should any of the Company’s larger customers experience financial difficulties, it could result in the Company’s curtailing doing business with them oran increase in its exposure related to its accounts receivable. The inability to collect on these receivables could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. The current credit crisis could have a negative impact on the Company’s customers, suppliers and business partners, which in turn could materially and adversely affect its results of operations and liquidity. The current credit crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of this crisis on the Company’s customers, suppliers and business partners cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of the Company’s manufacturers to ship products could impair the Company’s ability to meet delivery date requirements. A disruption in the ability of the Company’s significant customers, distributors or licensees to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of the Company’s products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to the Company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. The Company’s wholesale business could be negatively affected by changes of ownership and consolidation in the retail industry. A large portion of the Company’s U.S. wholesale business is derived from major jewelry store chains and department stores. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced changes in ownership and consolidations, none of which has had a material effect on the Company’s wholesale business. Future reorganizations, changes of ownership and consolidations could reduce the number of retail doors in which the Company’s products are sold and could increase the concentration of sales for any customers involved in such transactions. Future changes of ownership and structure in the retail industry may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s wholesale business. If the Company were to lose key members of management or be unable to attract and retain the talent required for the business, operating results could suffer. The Company’s ability to execute key operating initiatives as well as to deliver product and marketing concepts appealing to target consumers depends largely on the efforts and abilities of key executives and senior management’s competencies. The unexpected loss of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the future business. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to attract and retain the talent and skills needed in the future. 20 Recent turmoil in the financial markets could affect credit availability and increase the cost of borrowing. Additionally, as a result of its non-compliance with the interest coverage ratio in its debt agreements, the Company is in the process of securing other financing. If the Company cannot secure financing and credit on favorable terms, the Company’s financial condition and results of operation may be materially adversely affected. The Company historically has been able to secure financing and credit facilities with very favorable terms due to the Company’s financial stability and good relationships with its lending partners. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company was not in compliance with the interest coverage ratio covenant under certain of its current debt agreements. As a result of the Company’s non-compliance with the interest coverage ratio covenant, any amounts owed under these agreements have been reclassified to current liabilities. Additionally, the Company is prohibited from borrowing any additional funds under these agreements, and the amounts owed as of January 31, 2009 may be declared immediately due and payable by the lenders. The lenders have not taken any action in respect to this default, but they may do so in the future. Through the date of this filing, the Company is in negotiations with banking institutions for a new three year asset-based revolving credit facility for an amount up to $110 million. Additionally, to provide for available liquidity in the event the $110 million asset-based revolving credit facility is not consummated, the Company has received a commitment for a three year, $50 million asset-based credit facility from Bank of America. The commitment is subject to the completion of due diligence by Bank of America and the satisfaction of a number of additional customary conditions precedent, certain of which are at the sole discretion of Bank of America. The Company expects that the fees and the interest rates under either of the above facilities will be at current market rates which are significantly higher than those historically paid by the Company, resulting in an increase in interest expense and an adverse impact on financial results. In the event the $110 million asset-based revolving credit facility or the $50 million asset-based credit facility is not consummated, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. If these conditions continue or worsen, the Company’s cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for the Company’s operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. In addition, the Company’s borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies’ short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on the Company’s performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase the Company’s cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for it to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs the Company incurs in order to finance its operations may have a material adverse impact on its business results and financial condition. A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted outside of the United States. Many factors affecting business activities outside the United States could adversely impact this business. The Company produces all of its watches and a portion of its proprietary jewelry outside the United States and primarily in Europe and Asia. The Company also generates approximately 45% of its revenue from international sources. 21 Factors that could affect the business activity vary by region and market and generally include without limitation: · instability or changes in social, political and/or economic conditions that could disrupt the trade activity in the countries where the Company’s manufacturers, suppliers and customers are located; · the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports and exports; · changes in foreign laws and regulations; · the adoption or expansion of trade sanctions; · recessions in foreign economies; and · a significant change in currency valuation in specific countries or markets. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks could affect the Company’s ability to operate in the affected regions. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. The Company has implemented a new business enterprise system. Any difficulties encountered with respect to such system could disrupt the Company’s operations and data retrieval process. On February 1, 2009 the Company implemented SAP, which is an end-to-end business enterprise solution, as its core enterprise system. The implementation of SAP will support the Company’s growth strategy and integrate its global sourcing, wholesale and retail operations, consolidating the businessoperating systems into a single platform. Substantially all of the Company’s subsidiaries migrated from the prior systems to SAP for all areas including finance, supply chain, sales and distribution, human resources, quality control and customer service. The point-of-sale and inventory systems of the retail segment will be implemented separately. While there were no significant difficulties encountered during the migration to SAP from the prior systems, and the Company did not experience any major disruptions in its operations or its ability to retrieve data or produce and ship product, the implementation is still in its early stages and difficulties may still arise as the Company ramps up operations in SAP during fiscal year 2010. If the Company is unable to successfully implement its expense reduction plans, its future operating results could suffer. During the second half of fiscal 2009, the Company implemented expense reduction plans designed to streamline operations, reduce expenses, and improve efficiencies and effectiveness across the Company’s global organization. In fiscal 2009, the Company recorded a total pre-tax charge of $11.1 million related to the completion of these programs and a restructuring of certain benefit arrangements. The Company may not be able to fully realize its expense reductions and sustain them in subsequent periods. In addition, the Company could incur additional unforeseen expenses that may fully or partially offset these expected expense savings. Furthermore, there are risks that the Company’s human resources could be strained as a result of the streamlining of operations and the reduction of its workforce. The inability to successfully implement its expense reduction plans could adversely affect the Company’s future financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Item 