Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K should be read carefully in connection with evaluating Movado Group, Inc.’s business. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Additional risks which the Company does not presently consider material, or of which it is not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on the business. Please also see “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1. Adverse economic conditions in the U.S. or in other key markets, and the resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer confidence and spending, including, but not limited to, general economic and business conditions; wages and employment levels; volatility in the stock market; home values; inflation; consumer debt levels; availability and cost of consumer credit; economic uncertainty; solvency concerns of major financial 13 Table of Contents institutions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fuel and energy costs and/or shortages; tax issues; and general political conditions, both domestic and abroad. Adverse economic conditions, including declines in employment levels, disposable income, consumer confidence and economic growth could result in decreased consumer spending that would adversely affect sales of consumer goods, particularly those, such as the Company’s products, that are viewed as discretionary items. In addition, events such as war, terrorism, natural disasters or outbreaks of disease could further suppress consumer spending on discretionary items. If any of these events should occur, the Company’s future sales could decline. The Company faces intense competition in the worldwide watch industry. The watch industry is highly competitive and the Company competes globally with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors, some of which are larger and have greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources. The Company’s products compete on the basis of price, features, perceived desirability, reliability and perceived attractiveness. The Company also faces increased competition from internet-based retailers. The Company’s future results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other competitors. Maintaining favorable brand recognition is essential to the success of the Company, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Favorable brand recognition is an important factor to the future success of the Company. The Company sells its products under a variety of owned and licensed brands. Factors affecting brand recognition are often outside the Company’s control, and the Company’s efforts to create or enhance favorable brand recognition, such as making significant investments in marketing and advertising campaigns, product design and anticipation of fashion trends, may not have their desired effects. Additionally, the Company relies on its licensors to maintain favorable brand recognition of their respective brands, and the Company often has no control over the brand management efforts of its licensors. Finally, although the Company’s independent distributors are subject to contractual requirements to protect the Company’s brands, it may be difficult to monitor or enforce such requirements, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. Any decline in perceived favorable recognition of the Company’s owned or licensed brands could materially and adversely affect future results of operations and profitability. If the Company is unable to respond to changes in consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner, sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Fashion trends and consumer demands and tastes often shift quickly. The Company attempts to monitor these trends in order to adapt its product offerings to suit customer demand. There is a risk that the Company will not properly perceive changes in trends or tastes, which may result in the failure to adapt the Company’s products accordingly. In addition, new model designs are regularly introduced into the market for all brands to keep ahead of evolving fashion trends as well as to initiate new trends of their own. There is risk that the public may not favor these new models or that the models may not be ready for sale until after the trend has passed. If the Company fails to respond to and keep up to date with fashion trends and consumer demands and tastes, its brand image, sales, profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If the Company misjudges the demand for its products, high inventory levels could adversely affect future operating results and profitability. Consumer demand for the Company’s products can affect inventory levels. If consumer demand is lower than expected, inventory levels can rise causing a strain on operating cash flow. If the inventory cannot be sold through the Company’s wholesale or retail outlets, additional write-downs or write-offs to future earnings could be necessary. Conversely, if consumer demand is higher than expected, insufficient inventory levels could result in unfulfilled customer orders, loss of revenue and an unfavorable impact on customer relationships. In particular, volatility and uncertainty related to macro-economic factors make it more difficult for the Company to forecast customer demand in its various markets. Failure to properly judge consumer demand and properly manage inventory could have a material adverse effect on profitability and liquidity. An increase in product returns could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and profitability. The Company recognizes revenue as sales when merchandise is shipped and title transfers to the customer. The Company permits the return of damaged or defective products and accepts limited amounts of product returns in certain instances. Accordingly, the Company provides allowances for the estimated amounts of these returns at the time of revenue recognition based on historical experience. While such returns have historically been within management’s expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. Any significant increase in damaged or defective products or expected returns could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. The Company’s business relies on the use of independent parties to manufacture its products. Any loss of an independent manufacturer, or the Company’s inability to deliver quality goods in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on customer relations, brand image, net sales and results of operations. The Company employs a flexible manufacturing model that relies on independent manufacturers to meet shifts in marketplace demand. Most of these manufacturers rely on third party suppliers for the various component parts needed to assemble finished watches sold to the Company. All such independent manufacturers and suppliers must achieve and maintain the Company’s high quality standards and specifications. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet the Company’s high quality standards and specifications could cause the Company to miss committed delivery dates with customers, which could result in cancellation of the customers’ orders. In addition, delays in delivery of satisfactory products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability, particularly if the delays cause the Company to be unable to market certain products during the seasonal periods when its sales are typically higher. See “Risk Factors – The Company’s business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.” A majority of the Swiss watch movements used in the manufacture of Movado, Ebel, Concord and ESQ watches are purchased from two suppliers, one of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of one of the Company’s competitors. Additionally, the Company generally does not have long-term supply commitments with its manufacturers and thus competes for production facilities with other organizations, some of which are larger and have greater resources. Any loss of an independent manufacturer or disruption in the supply chain with respect to critical component parts may 15 Table of Contents result in the Company’s inability to deliver quality goods in a timely manner and could have an adverse effect on customer relations, brand image, net sales and results of operations. If the Company loses any of its license agreements, there may be significant loss of revenues and a negative effect on business. The Company has the right to produce, market and distribute watches under the brand names of ESQ, Coach, Tommy Hilfiger, HUGO BOSS, Juicy Couture, Scuderia Ferrari and Lacoste pursuant to license agreements with the respective owners of those trademarks. There are certain minimum royalty payments as well as other requirements associated with these agreements. Failure to meet any of these requirements could result in the loss of the license. Additionally, after the term of any license agreement has concluded, the licensor may decide not to renew with the Company. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013, the above mentioned licensed brands represented approximately 45% of the Company’s net sales. No individual licensed brand represented net sales greater than 20% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales. The loss of one or more of the Company’s licenses could result in loss of future revenues which could adversely affect its financial condition. Changes in the sales or channel mix of the Company’s products could impact gross profit margins. The individual brands that are sold by the Company are sold at a wide range of price points and yield a variety of gross profit margins. In addition, sales of excess and/or discontinued inventory into the liquidation channel generate a lower gross profit margin than non-liquidation sales. Thus, the mix of sales by brand as well as by distribution channel can have an impact on the gross profit margins of the Company. If the Company’s sales mix shifts unfavorably toward brands with lower gross profit margins than the Company’s historical consolidated gross profit margin or if a greater proportion of liquidation sales are made, it could have an adverse effect on the results of operations. The Company’s business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s sales are seasonal by nature. The Company’s U.S. sales are traditionally greater during the Christmas and holiday season. Internationally, major selling seasons center on significant local holidays that occur in late winter or early spring. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during these seasons depends upon the general level of retail sales at such times, as well as economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control. The second half of each year accounted for 56.1%, 56.6%, and 58.6% of the Company’s net sales for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. If events or circumstances were to occur that negatively impact consumer spending during such holiday seasons, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales, profitability and results of operations. Sales in the Company’s retail stores are dependent upon customer foot traffic. The success of the Company’s retail stores is, to a certain extent, dependent upon the amount of customer foot traffic generated by the outlet center in which those stores are located. Most of the Company’s outlet stores are located near vacation destinations. 16 Table of Contents Factors that can affect customer foot traffic include: — decline in customer discretionary spending; — the location of the outlet center; — the location of the Company’s store within the outlet center; — the other tenants in the outlet center; — the occupancy rate of the outlet center; — the success of the outlet center and tenant advertising to attract customers; — increased competition in areas surrounding the outlet center; and — increased competition from shopping over the internet and other alternatives such as mail-order. Additionally, since most of the Company’s outlet stores are located near vacation destinations, factors that affect travel could decrease outlet center traffic. Such factors include the price and supply of fuel, travel concerns and restrictions, international instability, terrorism and inclement weather. A reduction in foot traffic in relevant shopping centers could have a material adverse effect on retail sales and profitability. If the Company is unable to maintain existing space or to lease new space for its retail stores in prime outlet center locations or is unable to complete construction on a timely basis, the Company’s ability to achieve favorable results in its retail business could be adversely affected. The Company’s outlet stores are strategically located in top outlet centers in the United States, most of which are located near vacation destinations. If the Company cannot maintain and secure locations in prime outlet centers for its outlet stores, it could jeopardize the operations of the stores and business plans for the future. Additionally, if the Company cannot complete construction in new stores within the planned timeframes, cost overruns and lost revenue could adversely affect the profitability of the retail segment. The Company on average plans for two to three new stores or renovations per fiscal year. The average time required to build-out or renovate each store and open it after delivery of possession is generally less than 60 days. Current or future cost reduction, streamlining, restructuring or business optimization initiatives could result in the Company incurring various one-time, non-recurring or unusual charges and other items, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reported earnings per share and other unadjusted financial measures. In the course of the Company’s efforts to implement its business plan to adapt to the changing economic environment, the Company may be required to take actions that could result in the incurrence of various one-time, non-recurring or unusual charges and other items. These charges and other items may include severance and relocation expenses, write-offs or write-downs of assets, impairment charges, facilities closure costs or other business optimization costs. In general, these costs will reduce the Company’s operating income and net income (along with the associated unadjusted per share measures). Therefore, such charges and other items could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reported results of operations and the market price of the Company’s securities. 17 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to successfully implement its growth strategies, its future operating results could suffer. There are certain risks involved in the Company seeking to expand its business through acquisitions, license agreements, joint ventures and other initiatives. There is risk involved with each of these. Acquisitions and new license agreements require the Company to ensure that new brands will successfully complement the other brands in its portfolio. The Company assumes the risk that the new brand will not be viewed by the public as favorably as its other brands. In addition, the integration of an acquired company or licensed brand into the Company’s existing business can strain the Company’s current infrastructure with the additional work required and there can be no assurance that the integration of acquisitions or licensed brands will be successful or that acquisitions or licensed brands will generate sales increases. The Company needs to ensure it has the adequate human resources and systems in place to allow for successful assimilation of new businesses. The inability to successfully implement its growth strategies could adversely affect the Company’s future financial condition and results of operations. The loss or infringement of the Company’s trademarks or other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on future results of operations. The Company believes that its trademarks and other intellectual property rights are vital to the competitiveness and success of its business and therefore it takes all appropriate actions to register and protect them. Such actions may not be adequate to prevent imitation of the Company’s products or infringement of its intellectual property rights, or to assure that others will not challenge the Company’s rights, or that such rights will be successfully defended. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries, including some in which the Company sells its products, may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, which could make it more difficult to successfully defend such challenges to them. The Company’s inability to obtain or maintain rights in its trademarks, including its licensed marks, could have an adverse effect on brand image and future results of operations. Fluctuations in the pricing of commodities or the cost of labor could adversely affect the Company’s ability to produce products at favorable prices. Some of the Company’s higher-end watch offerings are made with materials such as diamonds, precious metals and gold. The Company relies on independent contractors to manufacture and assemble the majority of its watch brands. A significant change in the prices of these commodities or the cost of third-party labor could adversely affect the Company’s business by: — reducing gross profit margins; — forcing an increase in suggested retail prices; which could lead to — decreasing consumer demand; which could lead to — higher inventory levels. Any and all of the above events could adversely affect the Company’s future cash flow and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The Company’s business is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. A significant portion of the Company’s inventory purchases are denominated in Swiss francs. The Company reduces its exposure to the Swiss franc exchange rate risk through a hedging program. Under the hedging program, the Company manages most of its foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows it to net certain exposures and take advantage of natural offsets. In the event these exposures do not offset, the Company has the ability under a hedging program to utilize forward exchange contracts and purchased foreign currency options to mitigate foreign currency risk. If these hedge instruments are unsuccessful at minimizing the risk or are deemed ineffective, any fluctuation of the Swiss franc exchange rate could impact the future results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect relative prices at which the Company and its foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Additionally, a portion of the Company’s net sales are recorded in its foreign subsidiaries in a currency other than the local currency of that subsidiary. This predominantly occurs in the Company’s Hong Kong and Swiss subsidiaries when they sell to Euro and British Pound based customers. This exposure is not hedged by the Company. Any fluctuation in the Euro and British Pound exchange rate in relation to the Hong Kong dollar and Swiss franc would have an effect on these sales that are recorded in Euro and British Pound. The currency effect on these sales has an equal effect on their recorded gross profit since the costs of these sales are recorded in the entities’ respective local currency. As a result of these and other foreign currency sales, certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have outstanding foreign currency receivables. At times, the Company reduces its exposure to this exchange rate risk, partially, under the hedging program utilizing forward exchange contracts. Furthermore, since the Company’s consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries must be translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company’s reported revenues, earnings, financial position and the comparability of results of operations from period to period. The Grinberg family owns a majority of the voting power of the Company’s stock. Each share of common stock of the Company is entitled to one vote per share while each share of class A common stock of the Company is entitled to ten votes per share. While the members of the Grinberg family do not own a majority of the Company’s outstanding common stock, by their significant holdings of class A common stock they control a majority of the voting power represented by all outstanding shares of both classes of stock. Consequently, the Grinberg family is in a position to significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders including, but not limited to, the election of the Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to the Company’s certificate of incorporation, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of the Company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Grinberg family. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. 19 Table of Contents The Company’s stock price could fluctuate and possibly decline due to changes in revenue, operating results and cash flow. The Company’s revenue, results of operations and cash flow can be affected by several factors, some of which are not within its control. Those factors include, but are not limited to, those described as risk factors in this Item 1A and under “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1. Any or all of these factors could cause a decline in revenues or increased expenses, both of which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations. If the Company’s earnings failed to meet the expectations of the public in any given period, the Company’s stock price could fluctuate and possibly decline. If the Company were to lose its relationship with any of its key customers or distributors or any of such customers or distributors were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, there may be a significant loss of revenue and operating results. The Company’s customer base covers a wide range of distribution including national jewelry store chains, department stores, independent regional jewelers, licensors’ retail stores and a network of independent distributors in many countries throughout the world. Except for its agreements with independent distributors, the Company does not have long-term sales contracts with its customers, nor does it have a significant backlog of unfilled orders. Customer purchasing decisions could vary with each selling season. A material change in the Company’s customers’ purchasing decisions could have an adverse effect on its revenue and operating results. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition usually without requiring collateral. Should any of the Company’s larger customers experience financial difficulties, it could result in the Company’s curtailing of doing business with them, an increased rate of product returns or an increase in its exposure related to its accounts receivable. The inability to collect on these receivables could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results and cash flows. The inability or difficulty of the Company’s customers, suppliers and business partners to obtain credit, could materially and adversely affect its results of operations and liquidity. Many of the Company’s customers, suppliers and business partners rely on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund their operations and a disruption in their ability to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions to or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to the Company, including delivering product ordered by the Company and placing or paying for future orders of the Company’s products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. The Company’s wholesale business could be negatively affected by further changes of ownership, contraction and consolidation in the retail industry. A large portion of the Company’s U.S. wholesale business is based on sales to major jewelry store chains and department stores. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced changes in ownership, contraction and consolidations, with a number of jewelry chain stores and department store operators going out of business and liquidating their inventory. Future reorganizations, changes of ownership and consolidations could further reduce the number of retail doors in which the Company’s products are sold 20 Table of Contents and increase the concentration of sales among fewer national or large regional retailers, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s wholesale business. If the Company were to lose key members of management or be unable to attract and retain the talent required for the business, operating results could suffer. The Company’s ability to execute key operating initiatives as well as to deliver product and marketing concepts appealing to target consumers depends largely on the efforts and abilities of key executives and senior management’s competencies. The unexpected loss of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the future business. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to attract and retain the talent and skills needed in the future. If the Company cannot secure financing and credit on favorable terms, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Credit and equity markets remain sensitive to world events and macro-economic developments. Therefore, the Company’s cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for the Company’s operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. In addition, the Company’s borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies’ short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on the Company’s performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase the Company’s cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for it to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs the Company incurs in order to finance its operations may have a material adverse impact on its business results and financial condition. A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted outside of the United States. Many factors affecting business activities outside the United States could adversely impact this business. The Company produces all of its watches in Europe and Asia. The Company also generates approximately 50% of its revenue from international sources. Factors that could affect this business activity vary by region and market and generally include without limitation: — instability or changes in social, political and/or economic conditions that could disrupt the trade activity in the countries where the Company’s manufacturers, suppliers and customers are located; — the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports and exports; — changes in foreign laws and regulations; — the adoption or expansion of trade sanctions; — recessions in foreign economies; and — a significant change in currency valuation in specific countries or markets. 21 Table of Contents If the Company was unable to protect the security of personal information about its customers or employees or prevent a privacy breach, it could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and suffer significant negative publicity which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. As part of the normal course of business the Company is involved in the receipt and storage of electronic information about customers and employees, as well as proprietary financial and non-financial data. Although the Company believes it has taken reasonable and appropriate actions to protect the security of this information, if the Company were to experience a security breach, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events, it could result in government enforcement actions and private litigation, attract a substantial amount of media attention, and damage the Company’s reputation and its relationships with its customers and employees, materially adversely affecting the Company’s sales and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 