ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Various portions of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. Since we have a limited operating history and no revenues to date, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered by a small developing company. We have limited financial resources and no revenues to date. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered by a small developing company starting a new business enterprise and the highly competitive environment in which we will operate. Since we have a limited operating history, we cannot assure you that our business will be profitable or that we will ever generate sufficient revenues to fully meet our expenses and totally support our anticipated activities. Our ability to continue as a business and implement our business plan will depend on our ability to raise sufficient debt or equity. There is no assurance such debt and/or equity offerings will be successful or that we will remain in business or be able to implement our business plan if the offerings are not successful. We need substantial additional financing to execute our business plan which may not be available. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not be able to continue operations. We do not yet have revenues and our ability to continue in business depends upon our ability to obtain working capital. There can be no assurance that any such financing would be available upon terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. The inability to obtain additional financing in a sufficient amount when needed, and upon acceptable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect upon us. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing or future stockholders is likely to result. 4 We may seek to raise additional funds, finance acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing capital stock that would dilute your ownership. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, acquisitions and develop strategic relationships, by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, which could significantly reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any newly issued securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stock. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt or the issuance or sale of other securities or instruments senior to our shares of common stock. The holders of any debt securities or instruments we may issue would have rights superior to the rights of our common stockholders. Our common stock price may fluctuate significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. Because we are a newly operating company, there are few objective metrics by which our progress may be measured. Consequently, we expect that the market price of our common stock will likely fluctuate significantly. There can be no assurance whether or when we will generate revenue from the license, sale or delivery of our unique products and services. In the absence of product revenue as a measure of our operating performance, we anticipate that investors and market analysts will assess our performance by considering factors such as: ● announcements of developments related to our business; ● developments in our strategic relationships with companies; ● our ability to enter into or extend investigation phase, development phase, commercialization phase and other agreements with new and/or existing partners; ● announcements regarding the status of any or all of our collaborations or products; ● market perception and/or investor sentiment regarding our products and services; ● announcements regarding developments in the digital and mobile technology and the broadcast and entertainment industries in general; ● the issuance of competitive patents or disallowance or loss of our patent or trademark rights; and ● quarterly variations in our operating results. We will not have control over many of these factors but expect that our stock price may be influenced by them. As a result, our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. The market for purchases and sales of our common stock may be very limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply. Our securities are very thinly traded. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of the common stock without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. Since we do not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future, and we may never pay dividends, you may not realize a return on your investment unless the price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your common stock. We will not distribute cash to our stockholders until and unless we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. The time frame for that is inherently unpredictable, and you should not plan on it occurring in the near future, if at all. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Since we are controlled by current insiders and affiliates of the Company, you and our other non-management shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome in matters requiring shareholder approval. As of September 28, 2011, approximately 115,098,000 shares of our common stock, not including currently exercisable warrants, are owned by current affiliates and insiders representing control of approximately 77% of the total voting power. As result of the closing of the Recapitalization, Sillerman, together with other investors approved by Sillerman, owns approximately 89% of the outstanding shares of common stock, with Sillerman (together with Robert F.X. Sillerman personally) directly or indirectly beneficially owning more than a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Sillerman essentially has the ability to elect all of our directors and to approve any action requiring stockholder action, without the vote of any other stockholders. It is possible that the interests of Sillerman could conflict in certain circumstances with those of other stockholders. Such concentrated ownership may also make it difficult for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in the event we merge with a third party or enter into other transactions that require shareholder approval. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 5 We rely on key members of management, the loss of whose services could adversely affect our success and development. Our success depends to a certain degree upon certain key members of the management. These individuals are a significant factor in our growth and ability to meet our business objectives. In particular, our success is highly dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers and our directors, particularly Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Executive Chairman and Director. The loss of our executive officers and directors could slow the growth of our business, or it may cease to operate at all, which may result in the total loss of an investor’s investment. Compensation may be paid to our officers, directors and employees regardless of our profitability, which may limit our ability to finance our business plan and adversely affect our business. Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Executive Chairman and director and Janet Scardino, our Chief Executive Officer and director are receiving compensation and any future employees of our company may be entitled to receive compensation, payments and reimbursements regardless of whether we operate at a profit or a loss. Any compensation received by Mr. Sillerman, Ms. Scardino or any other senior executive in the future will be determined from time to time by the board of directors or our Compensation Committee. Such obligations may negatively affect our cash flow and our ability to finance our business plan, which could cause our business to fail. Some of our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in business opportunities that may be disadvantageous to us. Robert F.X. Sillerman, our Executive Chairman and director, and Mitchell Nelson, our Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and director, are each engaged in other business endeavors, including serving as executive officers of Circle Entertainment Inc. (“Circle”). Under Mr. Sillerman’s employment agreement, he is obligated to devote his working time to the Company's affairs, but may continue to perform his responsibilities as an executive officer of Circle, as well as in other outside non-competitive businesses. Mr. Sillerman has agreed to present to the Company any business opportunities related to or appropriate for the Company’s business plan. Pursuant to Mr. Nelson’s employment agreement, he is obligated to devote such time and attention to the affairs of the Company as is necessary for him to perform his duties as Executive Vice President and General Counsel. He is also entitled to perform similar functions for Circle pursuant to the shared services agreement described in Section 11 hereof, "Related Party Transactions". Although Circle and the Company have generally different business plans, interests and programs, it is conceivable there may be a conflict of interest in determining where a potential opportunity should be brought. Conflicts of interest are prohibited as a matter of Company policy, except under guidelines approved by the board of directors, as set forth in the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics also sets forth the procedures to follow in the event that a potential conflict of interest arises. For a description of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, please see the section entitled “Corporate Governance” below. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key officers or employees. Our success depends on the expertise and continued service of our Executive Chairman, Robert F.X Sillerman, and certain other key executives and technical personnel. It may be difficult to find a sufficiently qualified individual to replace Mr. Sillerman or other key executives in the event of death, disability or resignation, resulting in our being unable to implement our business plan and the Company having no operations or revenues. Furthermore, our ability to expand operations to accommodate our anticipated growth will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified media, management, finance, marketing, sales and technical personnel. However, competition for these types of employees is intense due to the limited number of qualified professionals. Our ability to meet our business development objectives will depend in part on our ability to recruit, train and retain top quality people with advanced skills who understand our technology and business. The Company believes that it will be able to attract competent employees, but no assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in this regard. If the Company is unable to engage and retain the necessary personnel, its business may be materially and adversely affected. We are uncertain of our ability to manage our growth. Our ability to grow our business is dependent upon a number of factors including our ability to hire, train and assimilate management and other employees, the adequacy of our financial resources, our ability to identify and efficiently provide such new products and services as our customers may require in the future and our ability to adapt our own systems to accommodate expanded operations. 6 Because of pressures from competitors with more resources, we may fail to implement our business strategy profitably. The digital and mobile technology business is highly fragmented and extremely competitive. The market for customers is intensely competitive and such competition is expected to continue to increase. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors within and beyond our control, including the timing and market acceptance of new solutions and enhancements to existing businesses developed by us, our competitors, and their advisors. Function(x) is an entertainment company that utilizes digital media and smartphone technology. If we are successful, larger and more established entertainment companies with significantly greater resources may try to enter the market with similar technologies, and may be in better competitive positions than we are. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy in the face of such competition. We may be unable to compete with larger or more established companies in two industries. We face a large and growing number of competitors in the digital and mobile technology and entertainment industries. If we successfully marry digital and mobile technology and entertainment, we will have competitors from both the digital and mobile and the entertainment industries. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, and more established relationships in the industry than does the Company. As a result, certain of these competitors may be in better positions to compete with us for customers and audiences. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may not have sufficient financial resources to fund further development. While we believe that a viable market exists for the products we are developing, there can be no assurance that such technology will prove to be an attractive alternative to conventional or competitive products in the markets that we have identified for exploitation. In the event that a viable market for our products cannot be created as envisaged by our business strategy or our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may need to commit greater resources than are currently available to develop a commercially viable and competitive product. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient financial resources to fund such development or that such development would be successful. Our ability to raise additional funds will depend on financial, economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that, when required, sufficient funds will be available to us on satisfactory terms. If our products do not perform as expected, or we are unable to successfully develop and market our products, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. With the release of any new product release, we are subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in development and implementation, and failure of products to perform as expected. In order to introduce and market new or enhanced products successfully with minimal disruption in customer purchasing patterns, we must manage the transition from existing products in the market. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, product enhancements or products that respond to technological advances by others, that our new products will adequately address the changing needs of the market or that we will successfully manage product transitions. Further, failure to generate sufficient cash from operations or financing activities to develop or obtain improved products and technologies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business will suffer if our network systems fail or become unavailable. A reduction in the performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure would harm our ability to distribute our products to our users, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain users and content providers. Our systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems could also be subject to viruses, break-ins, sabotage, acts of terrorism, acts of vandalism, hacking, cyber-terrorism and similar misconduct. We might not carry adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. Any system error or failure that causes interruption in availability of products or an increase in response time could result in a loss of potential customers or content providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we suffer sustained or repeated interruptions, then our products and services could be less attractive to our users and our business would be materially harmed. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights from third-party claims and litigation, which could be expensive, divert management’s attention, and harm our business. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We seek patent protection for those inventions and technologies for which we believe such protection is suitable and is likely to provide a competitive advantage to us. Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our products that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used in third-party products that compete with our products and processes. In the event a competitor successfully challenges our products, processes, patents or licenses or claims that we have infringed upon their intellectual property, we could incur substantial litigation costs defending against such claims, be required to pay royalties, license fees or other damages or be barred from using the intellectual property at issue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We also rely substantially on trade secrets, proprietary technology, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements, and technical measures to protect our technology, application, design, and manufacturing know-how, and work actively to foster continuing technological innovation to maintain and protect our competitive position. We cannot assure you that steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be adequate, that our competitors will not independently develop or patent substantially equivalent or superior technologies or be able to design around patents that we may receive, or that our intellectual property will not be misappropriated. 7 You may have limited access to information regarding our business because we are a limited reporting company exempt from many regulatory requirements and our obligations to file periodic reports with the SEC could be automatically suspended under certain circumstances. The Company will not become a fully reporting company but rather, will be subject to the reporting requirements of Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. As of effectiveness of our registration statement, we will be required to file periodic reports with the SEC which will be immediately available to the public for inspection and copying (see "Where You Can Find More Information" elsewhere in this prospectus). Except during the year that our registration statement becomes effective, these reporting obligations may be automatically suspended under Section 15(d) if we have less than 300 shareholders. If this occurs after the year in which our registration statement becomes effective, we will no longer be obligated to file periodic reports with the SEC and your access to our business information would then be even more restricted. After this registration statement on Form S-1 becomes effective, we will be required to deliver periodic reports to security holders. However, we will not be required to furnish proxy statements to security holders and our directors, officers and principal beneficial owners will not be required to report their beneficial ownership of securities to the SEC pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act until we have both 500 or more security holders and greater than $10 million in assets. This means that your access to information regarding our business will be limited. Changes to federal, state or international laws or regulations applicable to our business could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations, including those with respect to privacy, advertising generally, consumer protection, content regulation, intellectual property, defamation, child protection, advertising to and collecting information from children, taxation, employment classification and billing. These laws and regulations and the interpretation or application of these laws and regulations could change. In addition, new laws or regulations affecting our business could be enacted. These laws and regulations are frequently costly to comply with and may divert a significant portion of management’s attention. If we fail to comply with these applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. There are many federal, state and international laws that may affect our business including measures to regulate consumer privacy, the use of copyrighted material, the collection of certain data, network neutrality, patent litigation, cyber security, child protection, subpoena and warrant processes, employee classification and others. In addition, most states have enacted legislation governing the breach of data security in which sensitive consumer information is released or accessed. If we fail to comply with these applicable laws or regulations we could be subject to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. Many of our potential partners are subject to industry specific laws and regulations or licensing requirements, including in the following industries: pharmaceuticals, online gaming, alcohol, adult content, tobacco, firearms, insurance, securities brokerage, real estate, sweepstakes, free trial offers, automatic renewal services and legal services. If any of our advertising partners fail to comply with any of these licensing requirements or other applicable laws or regulations, or if such laws and regulations or licensing requirements become more stringent or are otherwise expanded, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, these laws may also limit the way we advertise our products and services or cause us to incur compliance costs, which could affect our revenues and could further adversely impact our business. There are a number of significant matters under review and discussion with respect to government regulations which may affect the business we intend to enter and/or harm our customers, and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 8 