Item 1A. Risk Factors. ------------ The results of operations and financial condition of the Trust are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating the Trust or any investment decision involving the Trust. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to the Trust and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Trust does not conduct any active business activities or operations and --------------------------------------------------------------------------- has no legal ability to compel production. ----------------------------------------- The Trust holds overriding royalty rights only. It is a passive entity and conducts no operations. It can exert no influence on the operating companies that conduct exploration, drilling, production and sales activities in the areas covered by the Trust's overriding royalty rights. Thus, the Trust has no means of ensuring continued income from its overriding royalty rights. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. The Trust also has no right to remove or replace an operator. The current operating companies are under no obligation to continue operations in the royalty areas. Natural gas is a wasting asset. The production and sale of natural gas, from which the Trust derives its royalties, reduces the amount of remaining proved producing reserves of natural gas. If the operating companies do not perform additional development projects which replace at least a portion of the current production, the anticipated life of the Trust will not be extended and could be shortened. Absent further additions to the amount of proved producing reserves, production and sales will reach a point in the future where the level of sales will no longer be commercially viable and production will cease. Ultimately, the amount of known and unknown reserves within a defined area, such as the Oldenburg concession, is finite and will decline over time. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be ----------------------------------------------------------------------- inaccurate, and these inaccuracies may cause errors in the reserve estimates. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- The value of Trust units may depend in part on the reserves attributable to the royalty areas. The calculations performed in the process of estimating proved producing reserves are inherently uncertain. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering interpretation and judgment, and the assumptions used regarding the quantities of recoverable natural gas and the future prices of crude oil and natural gas. The Trust currently receives quarterly reports from the operating companies with respect to production and sales on either a well-by-well or an area-wide basis. The Trust also receives annual - 9 - reports from the operating companies with respect to current and planned drilling and exploration efforts. These reports are very limited in nature. The unified exploration and production venture, ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH ("EMPG"), which provides these reports to the Trust, continues to limit the information flow to that which is required by German law, and the Trust has no legal or contractual right to compel the issuance of additional information. The Trust's inability to compel the delivery of detailed information with respect to individual wells increases the possibility of inaccuracy in the petroleum engineering consultant's estimates of reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures by the operating companies for the royalty areas, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. The effects of fluctuations in prices of gas and oil and changes in worldwide ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- and local economic conditions on the royalty income paid to the Trust cannot ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- be accurately projected. ----------------------- The Trust's distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and a decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of cash distributions paid to unit owners. Oil and natural gas prices and demand for these products can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust. Factors that contribute to these fluctuations include, among others: (1) worldwide and German economic conditions and levels of economic activity; (2) political and economic conditions in major oil producing regions, especially in the Middle East and Russia; (3) weather conditions; (4) the price of oil or natural gas imported into Germany; (5) the level of consumer demand in Germany; (6) the increasing role of alternate energy sources along with the German government's and European Union's role in promoting those sources; and (7) German and European Union governmental actions intended to broaden sources of energy supply. When oil and natural gas prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net income from the royalty areas is reduced. Second, exploration and development activity by the operating companies on the royalty areas may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or eliminated. It is impossible to predict future oil and natural gas price movements, and this, along with other factors, make future cash distributions to unit owners impossible to predict. Changes in the dollar value of the Euro have both an immediate and long term ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- impact on the Trust. ------------------- For unit owners, changes in the dollar value of the Euro have both an immediate and long-term impact. The immediate impact is from the exchange rate that is applied at the time the royalties, paid to the Trust in Euros, are converted into U.S. dollars at the time of their transfer from Germany to the United States. In relation to the dollar, a stronger Euro would yield more dollars and a weaker Euro would yield less dollars. - 10 - The long-term impact relates to the mechanism of gas pricing contained in the gas sales contracts negotiated by the operating companies. These gas sales contracts often use the price of German light heating oil as one of the primary pricing factors by which the price of gas is determined. The price of German light heating oil, which is a refined product, is largely determined by the price of the imported crude oil from which it was refined. Oil on the international market is priced in dollars. However, when oil is imported into Germany it is purchased in Euros, and at this point the dollar value of the Euro becomes relevant. A weaker Euro would buy less oil making that oil and the subsequently refined light heating oil more expensive. A stronger Euro would buy more oil making that oil and the subsequently refined light heating oil less expensive. Since changes in the price of German light heating oil are subsequently reflected in the price of gas through the gas sales contracts, the dollar/Euro relationship can make the prices of gas higher or lower. The changes in gas prices that result from changes in the prices of German light heating oil are only reflected after a built-in delay of three to six months as specified in the individual gas sales contracts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. ------------------------- None. 