Item 1A. Risk Factors. ------------ The results of operations and financial condition of the Trust are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating the Trust or any investment decision involving the Trust. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to the Trust and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. More detailed information concerning the risk factors described below is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Trust does not conduct any active business activities or operations and --------------------------------------------------------------------------- has no legal ability to compel production. ----------------------------------------- The Trust holds overriding royalty rights only. It is a passive entity and conducts no operations. It can exert no influence on the operating companies that conduct exploration, drilling, production and sales activities in the areas covered by the Trust's overriding royalty rights. Thus, the Trust has no means of ensuring continued income from its overriding royalty rights. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. The Trust also has no right to remove or replace an operator. The current operating companies are under no obligation to continue operations in the royalty areas. Natural gas is a wasting asset. The production and sale of natural gas, from which the Trust derives its royalties, reduces the amount of remaining proved producing reserves of natural gas. If the operating companies do not perform additional development projects which replace at least a portion of the current production, the anticipated life of the Trust will not be extended and could be shortened. Absent further additions to the amount of proved producing reserves, production and sales will reach a point in the future where the level of sales will no longer be commercially viable and production will cease. Ultimately, the amount of known and unknown reserves within a defined area, such as the Oldenburg concession, is finite and will decline over time. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be ----------------------------------------------------------------------- inaccurate, and these inaccuracies may cause errors in the reserve estimates. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- The value of Trust units may depend in part on the reserves attributable to the royalty areas. The calculations performed in the process of estimating proved producing reserves are inherently uncertain. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering interpretation and judgment, and the assumptions used regarding the quantities of recoverable natural gas and the future prices of crude oil and natural gas. - 9 - The Trust currently receives quarterly reports from the operating companies with respect to production and sales on either a well-by-well or an area-wide basis. The Trust also receives annual reports from the operating companies with respect to current and planned drilling and exploration efforts. These reports are very limited in nature. The unified exploration and production venture, ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH ("EMPG"), which provides these reports to the Trust, continues to limit the information flow to that which is required by German law, and the Trust has no legal or contractual right to compel the issuance of additional information. The Trust's inability to compel the delivery of detailed information with respect to individual wells increases the possibility of inaccuracy in the petroleum engineering consultant's estimates of reserves. Actual production, revenues and expenditures by the operating companies for the royalty areas, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. There is currently a moratorium on fracking in place in Germany. When or if the moratorium will be lifted is unknown at this time. We cannot estimate the impact the absence of fracking may have had, or will have, on the development of additional reserves. The effects of fluctuations in prices of gas and oil and changes in worldwide ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- and local economic conditions on the royalty income paid to the Trust cannot ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- be accurately projected. ----------------------- The Trust's distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and a decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of cash distributions paid to unit owners. Oil and natural gas prices and demand for these products can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust. Factors that contribute to these fluctuations include, among others: (1) worldwide and German economic conditions and levels of economic activity; (2) political and economic conditions in major oil producing regions, especially in the Middle East and Russia; (3) weather conditions; (4) the price of oil or natural gas imported into Germany; (5) the level of consumer demand in Germany; (6) the increasing role of alternate energy sources along with the German government's and European Union's role in promoting those sources; and (7) German and European Union governmental actions intended to broaden sources of energy supply. When oil and natural gas prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net income from the royalty areas is reduced. Second, exploration and development activity by the operating companies on the royalty areas may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or eliminated. It is impossible to predict future oil and natural gas price movements, and this, along with other factors, make future cash distributions to unit owners impossible to predict. In recent years, there has been a shift in the structure of European gas supply contracts resulting in the decoupling of the link between oil prices and gas prices. Currently, only a minor percentage of gas supply contracts continue to use some version of the price of oil as a basis for pricing gas. A comprehensive spot market has developed in Europe in recent years with corresponding spot market prices for gas where the gas price is - 10 - not linked to oil prices. According to the Trust's accountants in Germany, gas prices are, in the overwhelming majority of contracts, being linked to spot market prices on a specific exchange with a plus or minus factor included. While we cannot predict what impact the use of such spot market prices will have on the Trust and its royalty income, the spot market can be affected by economic and political changes. Changes in the dollar value of the Euro have an immediate impact on the Trust. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ For unit owners, changes in the dollar value of the Euro have an immediate impact. This impact occurs at the time the royalties, which are paid to the Trust in Euros, are converted into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate and transferred from Germany to the United States. In relation to the dollar, a stronger Euro would yield more dollars and a weaker Euro would yield less dollars. Cyber security risks and cyber incidents at the Trust or the operating ---------------------------------------------------------------------- companies could adversely affect our business. ---------------------------------------------- Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cyber security protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting investor confidence. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. ------------------------- None. - 11 - 