Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results The statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements containing the words “believes,” “expects” and similar words, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. From time to time, we may make other forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to an inherent risk that actual results may differ materially. The following information highlights some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Factors that may result in such variances include, but are not limited to, the following: The industries that comprise our primary markets are volatile and unpredictable and we are experiencing weakness in some of our markets. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers of components and circuitry used in wireless communications, computers and other electronic products. The markets for electronic devices have experienced sharp downturns. In fiscal 2008, we began to see the impact of weakness in the memory market and 9 Table of Contents lower capital spending, particularly in the fourth quarter. For example, orders were down 31% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 from the third quarter of fiscal 2008. During such downturns, semiconductor and micro-electronics manufacturers, including our customers, can be expected to delay or cancel capital expenditures, which may have a negative impact on our financial results. During a downturn, we are not able to project when demand for our products will increase or that demand will not decrease further. Even if demand for our products does increase, there may be significant fluctuations in our profitability and net sales. During this and any downturn, it is difficult for us to maintain our sales levels. As a consequence, to maintain profitability we need to reduce our operating expenses. Our ability to quickly reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expense and our subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. Additionally, we may be unable to defer capital expenditures and we need to continue to invest in certain areas such as research and development. This and any economic downturn may also cause us to incur charges related to impairment of assets and inventory write-offs, and we may experience delays in payments from our customers, which would have a negative effect on our financial results. In addition, because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of a relatively small number of products, the timing of, or changes to, orders by our customers may also cause our order levels and results of operations to fluctuate between periods, perhaps significantly. Accordingly, order levels or results of operations for a given period may not be indicative of order levels or results of operations for following periods. Our business is highly competitive, and if we fail to compete effectively, our business will be harmed. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We face substantial competition from established competitors, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products. New companies may enter the markets in which we compete, or industry consolidation may occur, further increasing competition in those markets. Furthermore, our technological advantages may be reduced or lost as a result of technological advances by our competitors. Our competitors’ greater resources in the areas described above may enable them to: • Better withstand periodic downturns; • Compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology; and • More quickly develop enhancements to and new generations of products. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: • Performance of our products; • Quality of our products; • Reliability of our products; • Cost of using our products; • The ability to upgrade our products; • Consistent availability of critical components; • Our ability to ship products on schedules required; • Quality of the technical service we provide; • Timeliness of the services we provide; 10 Table of Contents • Our success in developing new products and enhancements; • Our understanding of the needs of our customers; • Existing market and economic conditions; and • Price of our products as compared to our competitors’ products. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins and loss of market share. We depend on a few significant customers and we do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Our top ten customers for fiscal 2008 accounted for approximately 59% of total net sales in fiscal 2008, with two customers accounting for a cumulative 23% of total net sales in fiscal 2008. None of our customers has any long-term obligation to continue to buy our products or services, and any customer could delay, reduce or cease ordering our products or services at any time. In addition, the semiconductor industry, and particularly the memory market is very cyclical, which could result in consolidation or changes in various partnership and technology arrangements amongst our customers. These changes could affect demand for our products and impact our technology roadmaps. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change and innovation, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address technological changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction by us or by our competitors of new and enhanced products, or alternative technologies, may cause our customers to defer, change or cancel orders for our existing products, which may harm our operating results. In the past we have also experienced delays in new product development. Similar delays may occur in the future. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements or, where necessary, to license these technologies from others. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • Changing product specifications and customer requirements; • Difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • Difficulties with contract manufacturers; • Changing market or competitive product requirements; and • Unanticipated engineering complexities. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technology changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technology change that may render our current products or technologies obsolete could significantly harm our business. 11 Table of Contents Failure of critical suppliers of parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to us in a timely and cost-effective manner could negatively affect our business. We use a wide range of materials from numerous suppliers in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. We seek to reduce the risk of production and service interruptions and shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, some key parts are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers in the short term. Operations at our suppliers’ facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including changes in business relationships, competitive factors, work stoppages, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could interrupt our manufacturing. Our business may be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. Delays in manufacturing, shipment or customer acceptance of our products could substantially decrease our sales for a period. We depend on manufacturing flexibility to meet the changing demands of our customers. Any significant delay or interruption in receiving raw materials or in our manufacturing operations as a result of software deficiencies, natural disasters, or other causes could result in reduced manufacturing capabilities or delayed product deliveries, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We also have an arrangement with a contract manufacturer in Singapore to complete the manufacture of certain of our products. Any significant interruption in this contract manufacturer’s ability to provide manufacturing services to us as a result of contractual disputes with us or another party, labor disruptions, natural disasters, delay or interruption in the receipt of inventory or other causes could result in reduced manufacturing capabilities or delayed deliveries for certain of our products, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of a relatively small number of products. Consequently, shipment and/or customer acceptance delays, including acceptance delays related to new product introductions or customizations, could significantly impact recognition of revenue and could be further magnified by announcements from us or our competitors of new products and technologies. Such announcements could cause our customers to defer purchases of our systems, change existing orders or purchase products from our competitors. Any of these delays could result in a material adverse change in our results of operations for any particular period. We acquire inventory based upon projected demand. If these projections are incorrect, we may carry inventory that cannot be used, which may result in significant charges for excess and obsolete inventory. Our business is highly competitive and one factor on which we compete is the ability to ship products on schedules required by customers. In order to facilitate timely shipping, management forecasts demand, both in type and amount of products, and these forecasts are used to determine inventory to be purchased. Certain types of inventory, including lasers and optical equipment, are particularly expensive and can only be used in the production of a single type of product. If actual demand is lower than forecast with respect to the type or amount of products actually ordered, or both, our inventory levels may increase. As a result, there is a risk that we may have to incur material accounting charges for excess and obsolete inventory if inventory cannot be used, which could negatively affect our financial results. We are exposed to the risks that others may violate our proprietary rights, and our intellectual property rights may not be well protected in foreign countries. Our success is dependent upon the protection of our proprietary rights. In the high technology industry, intellectual property is an important asset that is always at risk of infringement. We incur substantial costs to 12 Table of Contents obtain and maintain patents and defend our intellectual property. For example, we have initiated litigation alleging that certain parties have violated various patents of ours, such as the action we initiated in Taiwan against All Ring Tech Co., Ltd. in August 2005. We rely upon the laws of the United States and of foreign countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products to protect our proprietary rights. However, these proprietary rights may not provide the competitive advantages that we expect or other parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent these rights. Further, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries, which could result in reduced sales and gross margins. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Several of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies, applications and methods of use similar to some of those used in our products. From time to time, we and our customers have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Competitors or others have in the past and may in the future assert infringement claims against our customers or us with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to use intellectual property rights of others. If claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we become subject to infringement claims, we will evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to reduce costs is limited by our need to invest in research and development. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. Because of intense competition in the industries in which we compete, if we were to fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to potential customers, and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our need to maintain our spending levels in this area, our operating results could be materially harmed if our net sales fall below expectations. In addition, as a result of our emphasis on research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase in the future, and research and development expenses may increase as a percentage of total operating expenses and as a percentage of net sales. Our worldwide direct sales and service operations and our overseas research and development facility expose us to employer-related risks in foreign countries. We have established direct sales and service organizations throughout the world. We have also established a research and development facility in China. Having overseas employees involves certain risks. We are subject to compliance with the labor laws and other laws governing employers in the countries where our operations are located and as a result we may incur additional costs to comply with these local regulations. Additionally, we may encounter labor shortages or disputes that could inhibit our ability to effectively sell, market and service our products. If we cannot effectively manage the risks related to employing persons in foreign countries, our operating results could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We completed an acquisition and may make acquisitions in the future, and these acquisitions may subject us to risks associated with integrating these businesses into our current business. In fiscal 2008, we completed the acquisition of New Wave Research, Incorporated (NWR) and in the future we may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with complementary products, services or technologies. Acquisitions, including the acquisition of NWR, involve numerous risks, many of which are unpredictable and beyond our control, including: • Difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired companies; • Diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • The potential loss of key employees of acquired companies; • Lack of synergy or inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition; • Acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company; • Difficulties establishing satisfactory internal controls at acquired companies; and • Incurring liabilities for which we may not be indemnified in full or at all. Our inability to effectively manage these acquisition risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition on a timely basis or at all. In addition, if we issue equity securities to pay for an acquisition the ownership percentage of our existing shareholders would be reduced and the value of the shares held by our existing shareholders could be diluted. If we use cash to pay for an acquisition the payment could significantly reduce the cash that would be available to fund our operations or to use for other purposes. In addition, the accounting for acquisitions, including the NWR acquisition, could result in significant charges resulting from amortization of intangible assets related to such acquisitions. We may make additional strategic investments in development stage companies and such investments are subject to a high degree of risk, and therefore it is possible that we could lose our entire investment. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business, including risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, legal and regulatory changes and the impact of regional and global economic disruptions. International shipments accounted for 82% of net sales in fiscal 2008, with 74% of our net sales to customers in Asia. We expect that international shipments will continue to represent a significant percentage of net sales in the future. We also have an arrangement with a contract manufacturer in Singapore to complete the manufacture of certain of our products. Our non-U.S. sales, purchases and operations, including contract manufacturing, are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including the following: • Periodic local or geographic economic downturns and unstable political conditions; • Price and currency exchange controls; • Fluctuation in the relative values of currencies; • Difficulties protecting intellectual property; • Local labor disputes; • Shipping delays and disruptions; • Increases in shipping costs, caused by increased fuel costs or otherwise, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers; 14 Table of Contents • Unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; and • Difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable, managing suppliers, distributors and representatives, and repatriation of earnings. Our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the possibility of regional or global economic disruptions (including those resulting from natural disasters and outbreaks of infectious disease), the economic consequences of military action or terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these uncertainties, we are subject to: • The risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities; • The risk of more frequent instances of shipping delays; and • The risk that demand for our products may not increase or may decrease. Our tax rates are subject to fluctuation, which could impact our financial position, and our estimates of tax liabilities may be subject to audit, which could result in additional assessments. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of: (a) taxable income levels and the effects of a mix of profits (losses) earned by ESI and our subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, (b) our ability to utilize deferred tax assets, (c) taxes, refunds, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits, (d) the magnitude of various credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income and (e) changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. For example, ESI has historically realized a significant benefit from research & experimentation tax credits, which expired on December 31, 2007 and has not been renewed. Changes in the mix of these items may cause our effective tax rates to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is exercised in determining our worldwide provisions for income taxes. Furthermore, we are occasionally under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and the impact of changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws could result in material differences from what is reflected in historical income tax accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an examination, a material effect on our financial results, tax positions or cash flows could occur in the period or periods in which the determination is made. No market currently exists for auction rate securities we hold and as a result we may not be able to liquidate them at the current valuation, if at all. We have recorded an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive income in equity on those securities. In addition, if the credit quality of the issuers or their guarantors declines, we may have to recognize an other-than temporary impairment on the income statement with respect to those securities. As of March 29, 2008, the Company had a total of $19.6 million at par value invested in auction rate securities, which were valued at $15.7 million on the consolidated balance sheet. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we recorded a reserve of 20%, or approximately $3.9 million, against our auction rate securities as an unrealized loss through accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America due to the ongoing illiquidity of these securities. Although the contractual maturities of these securities range up to calendar year 2050 and with some having perpetual maturities, the securities historically provided short-term liquidity through a Dutch auction process that reset the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, generally 15 Table of Contents every 28 to 35 days. This mechanism allowed existing investors to either retain their holdings or liquidate their holdings by selling such securities at par. With the liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, our auction rate securities have experienced multiple failed auctions. While we continue to earn interest on these investments at the maximum contractual rate, the estimated current market value of these auction rate securities no longer approximates par value. We believe the decline in market value is due to the lack of liquidity for asset-backed securities resulting from the sub-prime lending collapse that began in 2007, rather than specific concerns with respect to the issuers of the auction rate securities themselves, and that these securities will ultimately be liquidated in orderly transactions. However, if we need to liquidate the securities in the near future or if no orderly liquidation occurs, we may not be able to liquidate these securities at the current valuation or at all, which could impair our liquidity. Continued illiquidity of these securities could require additional reserves on our balance sheet by recognizing further unrealized losses through accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, while we believe these investments continue to be of high credit quality and the respective credit ratings of the securities issuers also remain high, if their credit quality decreases or such credit ratings decline we may have to recognize an other-than temporary impairment to the value of the securities, which would adversely impact our results of operations. It is possible that continued uncertainty in the credit markets could also impact the liquidity of our other investments and cash equivalents, which could impair our liquidity or require us to recognize an impairment to the value of those investments, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract, retain and assimilate sufficient numbers of managerial, financial, engineering and other technical personnel could have a material effect upon our results of operations. Our continued success depends, in part, upon key managerial, financial, engineering and technical personnel as well as our ability to continue to attract, retain and assimilate additional personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We may not be able to retain our key managerial, financial, engineering and technical employees. Attracting qualified personnel may be difficult and our efforts to attract and retain these personnel may not be successful. In addition, we may not be able to assimilate qualified personnel, including any new members of senior management, which could disrupt our operations. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in a prior fiscal year and if material weaknesses are discovered in the future, our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected. We have taken the steps necessary to remediate the previously identified material weakness. However, the identification of one or more additional material weaknesses in the future could result in material misstatements in our financial reports and could lead us or our auditors to conclude that we do not have effective controls over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This may negatively impact the market’s view of our control environment and, potentially, our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 