Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results The statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements containing the words “believes,” “expects” and similar words, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. From time to time, we may make other forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to an inherent risk that actual results may differ materially. The following information highlights some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Factors that may result in such variances include, but are not limited to, the following: The industries that comprise our primary markets are volatile and unpredictable and we are experiencing weakness in most of our markets and may experience weakness in the future. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers of components and circuitry used in wireless communications, computers and other electronic products. The markets for electronic devices have experienced sharp downturns in the past, are currently experiencing such a downturn, and may experience further downturns in the future. In 2008, we began to see the impact of weakness in the memory market and lower capital spending, particularly in the fourth quarter. This weakening increased significantly and expanded to general microelectronics and other markets during 2009 driven by the financial and credit markets and subsequent global economic weakening, resulting in a decline in orders for all of our product groups in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, with virtually no SG systems orders in the third and fourth quarters of 2009. There could be further declines in these markets and others. During such downturns, semiconductor and micro-electronics manufacturers, including our customers, can be expected to delay or cancel capital expenditures, which may have a negative impact on our financial results. During a downturn, we are not able to project when or if demand for our products will increase or that demand will not decrease further. Even if demand for our products does increase, there may be significant fluctuations in our profitability and net sales. During this and any downturn, it is difficult for us to maintain our sales levels. As a consequence, to maintain profitability we need to reduce our operating expenses. Our ability to quickly reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expense and our subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. Additionally, we may be unable to defer capital expenditures and we need to continue to invest in certain areas such as research and development. These factors could cause us to use greater amounts of cash in our operating and investing activities, thus reducing our existing cash and investment balances. This and any economic downturn may also cause us to incur charges related to impairment of assets, inventory write-offs, and reductions in force, and we may experience delays in payments from our customers, which would have a negative effect on our financial results. In addition, because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of a relatively small number of products, the timing of, or changes to, orders by our customers may also cause our order levels and results of operations to fluctuate between periods, perhaps significantly. Accordingly, order levels or results of operations for a given period may not be indicative of order levels or results of operations for following periods. The global financial crisis and economic slowdown may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system and economic slowdown have had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. For example, demand for consumer electronics has fallen as a result of these events, reducing capital spending by our customers and thereby adversely affecting demand for our products. In addition to the impact that the global financial crisis and economic slowdown have already had on us, we may face significant challenges if these conditions do not improve or continue to worsen. Demand for our products could be adversely impacted if customers are not able 9 Table of Contents to obtain financing for capital expenditures, declare bankruptcy, or are forced to discontinue operations, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. For example, in January 2009, Qimonda AG, historically one of our top customers, filed a petition to open insolvency proceedings in Germany. Our business is highly competitive, and if we fail to compete effectively, our business will be harmed. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We face substantial competition from established competitors, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products. New companies may enter the markets in which we compete, or industry consolidation may occur, further increasing competition in those markets. Furthermore, our technological advantages may be reduced or lost as a result of technological advances by our competitors. Our competitors’ greater resources in the areas described above may enable them to: • Better withstand periodic downturns; • Compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology; and • More quickly develop enhancements to and new generations of products. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: • Performance of our products; • Quality of our products; • Reliability of our products; • Cost of using our products; • The ability to upgrade our products; • Consistent availability of critical components; • Our ability to ship products on schedules required; • Quality of the technical service we provide; • Timeliness of the services we provide; • Our success in developing new products and enhancements, including those that are able to compete with new technological advancements; • Our understanding of the needs of our customers; • Existing market and economic conditions; and • Price of our products as compared to our competitors’ products. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins and loss of market share. We depend on a few significant customers and we do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. We depend on a few significant customers for a large portion of our revenue. For example, our top ten customers for 2009 accounted for approximately 50% of total net sales in 2009, with one customer, Apple Computer, Inc. and its affiliates, accounting for approximately 21% of total net sales. In 2008, our top ten 10 Table of Contents customers accounted for approximately 59% of total net sales, with two customers accounting for a cumulative 23% of total net sales. None of our customers have any long-term obligation to continue to buy our products or services, and any customer could delay, reduce or cease ordering our products or services at any time. Further, reduced revenue resulting from cyclicality or market downturns may result in a few customers accounting for a higher percentage of our revenue, as evidenced by one customer accounting for approximately 21% of net sales in 2009. As a result, any delay, reduction or cessation in purchases by such customers during a period of reduced sales could have a significant negative impact on our financial results. In addition, the semiconductor industry, and particularly the memory market, is very cyclical, which could result in consolidation among customers, changes in various partnership and technology arrangements among customers, bankruptcy of customers or departures of customers from the industry. For example, in January 2009, Qimonda AG, historically one of our top customers, filed a petition to open insolvency proceedings in Germany. These changes could negatively affect demand for our products or negatively impact the value of our technology strategies. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change and innovation, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address technological changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. We and our competitors are continuously working to develop new or enhanced products and new technologies. For example, for many years, the semiconductor memory industry has employed alternative redundancy technologies. The adoption by our customers of non-laser based redundancy technology could have a material adverse effect on demand for our SG products. The introduction by us or by our competitors of new or enhanced products, or alternative technologies, may cause our customers to defer, change or cancel orders for our existing products or cease purchasing our products altogether, which may harm our operating results. In the past we have also experienced delays in new product development. Similar delays may occur in the future. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements or, where necessary, to license these technologies from others. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • Changing product specifications and customer requirements; • Difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • Difficulties with contract manufacturers; • Changing market or competitive product requirements; and • Unanticipated engineering complexities. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technology changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to product or technology changes or new industry standards that may render our current products or technologies obsolete could significantly harm our business. 11 Table of Contents Failure of critical suppliers of parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to us in a timely and cost-effective manner could negatively affect our business. We use a wide range of materials from numerous suppliers in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. We seek to reduce the risk of production and service interruptions and shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, some key parts are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers in the short term. Operations at our suppliers’ facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including changes in business relationships, competitive factors, financial difficulties, work stoppages, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could interrupt our manufacturing. Our business may be harmed if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our production requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. Delays in manufacturing, shipment or customer acceptance of our products could substantially decrease our sales for a period. We depend on manufacturing flexibility to meet the changing demands of our customers. Any significant delay or interruption in receiving raw materials or in our manufacturing operations as a result of software deficiencies, natural disasters, or other causes could result in reduced manufacturing capabilities or delayed product deliveries, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We also have an arrangement with a contract manufacturer in Singapore to complete the manufacture of certain of our products. Any significant interruption in this contract manufacturer’s ability to provide manufacturing services to us as a result of contractual disputes with us or another party, labor disruptions, financial difficulties, natural disasters, delay or interruption in the receipt of inventory or other causes could result in reduced manufacturing capabilities or delayed deliveries for certain of our products, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of a relatively small number of products. Consequently, shipment and/or customer acceptance delays, including acceptance delays related to new product introductions or customizations, could significantly impact recognition of revenue and could be further magnified by announcements from us or our competitors of new products and technologies. Such announcements could cause our customers to defer purchases of our systems, change existing orders or purchase products from our competitors. Any of these delays could result in a material adverse change in our results of operations for any particular period. We acquire inventory based upon projected demand and our technology roadmap. If these projections are incorrect, or our technology strategy changes, we may carry inventory that cannot be used, which may result in significant charges for excess and obsolete inventory. Our business is highly competitive and one factor on which we compete is the ability to ship products on schedules required by customers. In order to facilitate timely shipping, management forecasts demand, both in type and amount of products, and these forecasts are used to determine inventory to be purchased. We also order materials based on our technology roadmap which we expect to be utilized in new products. Certain types of inventory, including lasers and optical equipment, are particularly expensive and can only be used in the production of a single type of product. If actual demand is lower than forecast with respect to the type or amount of products actually ordered, or both, our inventory levels may increase. For example, at March 28, 2009, we had $84.9 million of inventory reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, much of which we purchased or committed to purchase prior to the time the severity of the current economic downturn became apparent. As a result, there is a risk that we may have to incur material accounting charges for excess and obsolete inventory if inventory cannot be used, which could negatively affect our financial results. Also, if we alter our technology 12 Table of Contents or product development strategy, we may have inventory which may not be usable under the new strategy, which may result in material accounting charges. For example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a $4.1 million charge to write-off material from an RD&E program due to a change in our product development strategy. We are exposed to the risks that others may violate our proprietary rights, and our intellectual property rights may not be well protected in foreign countries. Our success is dependent upon the protection of our proprietary rights. In the high technology industry, intellectual property is an important asset that is always at risk of infringement. We incur substantial costs to obtain and maintain patents and defend our intellectual property. For example, we have initiated litigation alleging that certain parties have violated various patents of ours, such as the action we initiated in Taiwan against All Ring Tech Co., Ltd. in August 2005. We rely upon the laws of the United States and of foreign countries in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products to protect our proprietary rights. However, these proprietary rights may not provide the competitive advantages that we expect or other parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent these rights. Further, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries, which could result in reduced sales and gross margins. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Several of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies, applications and methods of use similar to some of those used in our products. While we attempt in our designs to avoid patent infringement, from time to time we and our customers have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Competitors or others have in the past and may in the future assert infringement claims against our customers or us with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to use intellectual property rights of others. If claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we become subject to infringement claims, we will evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to reduce costs is limited by our need to invest in research and development. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. Because of intense competition in the industries in which we compete, if we were to fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to potential customers, and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our need to maintain our spending levels in this area, our operating results could be materially harmed if our net sales fall below expectations. In addition, as a result of our emphasis on research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase in the future, and research and development expenses may increase as a percentage of total operating expenses and as a percentage of net sales. 13 Table of Contents Our worldwide direct sales and service operations and our overseas research and development facility expose us to employer-related risks in foreign countries. We have established direct sales and service organizations throughout the world. We have also established a research and development facility in China. Having overseas employees involves certain risks. We are subject to compliance with the labor laws and other laws governing employers in the countries where our operations are located and as a result we may incur additional costs to comply with these local regulations. Additionally, we may encounter labor shortages or disputes that could inhibit our ability to effectively sell, market and service our products. If we cannot effectively manage the risks related to employing persons in foreign countries, our operating results could be adversely affected. We may make acquisitions in the future, and these acquisitions may subject us to risks associated with integrating these businesses into our current business. We may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with complementary products, services or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, many of which are unpredictable and beyond our control, including: • Difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of the merged businesses; • Implementation of the Company’s enterprise resource planning (ERP) system into the acquired company’s operations; • Diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • The potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • Lack of synergy or inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition; • Acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company; • Difficulties establishing satisfactory internal controls at the acquired company; • Risks and uncertainties relating to the performance of the combined company following the transaction; and • Incurring unanticipated liabilities for which we will not be indemnified. Our inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition on a timely basis or at all. In addition, if we issue common stock to pay for an acquisition, the ownership percentage of our existing shareholders will be reduced and the value of the shares held by our existing shareholders could be diluted. If we use cash to pay for an acquisition, the payment could significantly reduce the cash that would be available to fund our operations or to use for other purposes. In addition, the accounting for an acquisition could result in significant charges resulting from amortization of intangible assets we acquire, and new accounting guidelines, effective beginning fiscal 2010, will require that acquisition transaction costs be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized. We may also make strategic investments in development stage companies and such investments are subject to a high degree of risk, and therefore it is possible that we could lose our entire investment. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business, including risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, legal and regulatory changes and the impact of regional and global economic disruptions. International shipments accounted for 81% of net sales in 2009, with 70% of our net sales to customers in Asia. We expect that international shipments will continue to represent a significant percentage of net sales in the 14 Table of Contents future. We also have an arrangement with a contract manufacturer in Singapore to complete the manufacture of certain of our products. Our non-U.S. sales, purchases and operations, including contract manufacturing, are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including the following: • Periodic local or geographic economic downturns and unstable political conditions; • Price and currency exchange controls; • Fluctuation in the relative values of currencies; • Difficulties protecting intellectual property; • Local labor disputes; • Shipping delays and disruptions; • Increases in shipping costs, caused by increased fuel costs or otherwise, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers; • Unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; and • Difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable, managing suppliers, distributors and representatives, and repatriation of earnings. Our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the possibility of regional or global economic disruptions (including those resulting from the global financial crisis and economic slowdown, natural disasters, or outbreaks of infectious disease), the economic consequences of military action or terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these uncertainties, we are subject to: • The risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities; • The risk of more frequent instances of shipping delays; • The risk that demand for our products may not increase or may decrease; and • The risk that our customers or suppliers may experience financial difficulties or cease operations. Our tax rates are subject to fluctuation, which could impact our financial position, and our estimates of tax liabilities may be subject to audit, which could result in additional assessments. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of: (a) taxable income levels and the effects of a mix of profits (losses) earned by ESI and our subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, (b) our ability to utilize deferred tax assets, (c) taxes, refunds, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits, (d) the magnitude of various credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income and (e) changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Changes in the mix of these items may cause our effective tax rates to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is exercised in determining our worldwide provisions for income taxes. Furthermore, we are occasionally under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and the impact of changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws could result in material differences from what is reflected in historical income tax accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an examination, a material effect on our financial results, tax positions or cash flows could occur in the period or periods in which the determination is made. 15 Table of Contents No market currently exists for the ARS we hold and as a result we may not be able to liquidate them at the current valuation, if at all. As a result, we have written down the cost basis of these securities to their estimated fair value with other-than-temporary impairment charges to earnings and we may have to do so again in the future under certain scenarios. As of March 28, 2009, we held a total of $15.6 million invested in auction rate securities (ARS) at par value. Additionally, we held $4.0 million of par value ARS which were converted by the bond issuer to its preferred stock during the third quarter of 2009. The estimated fair value of these securities at March 28, 2009 was $6.0 million. At the time of purchase in 2007, these ARS were rated AAA and AA. The contractual maturities of these securities range up to calendar year 2050 and several securities and the preferred stock do not have stated maturities. Our ARS are comprised predominately of securities issued by insurance companies to raise funds to meet regulatory capital reserve requirements and the ARS assume the credit ratings of the bond insurers who guarantee the timely payment of principal and interest on these insured securities. Prior to September 2007, these securities provided short-term liquidity through a Dutch auction process that reset the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, generally every 28 to 35 days. This mechanism allowed existing investors to either retain or liquidate their holdings by selling such securities at par. Over the past twenty-one months, our ARS have experienced failed auctions and the bond insurers, including the issuer of the preferred stock, have experienced credit rating downgrades. While we continue to receive interest income on these investments at the maximum contractual rate and receive dividend payments on the preferred stock, the estimated market value of these securities no longer approximates par value. Consequently, it was determined that the decline in fair value of these securities represented an other-than-temporary impairment in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the cost basis of these securities was written down to their estimated fair values with an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $13.6 million for the year ended March 28, 2009, of which $1.1 million was recorded during the fourth quarter. The $6.0 million estimated fair value of these securities is classified as a non-current investment on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at March 28, 2009, consistent with the classification at March 29, 2008. We continue to receive all interest payments when due and expect to receive dividend payments on the preferred stock. Given the continued challenges in the financial markets and the prolonged credit crisis, we cannot reasonably predict when these securities will become liquid, and it is not possible to ascertain when or whether market conditions will change resulting in the recovery of fair value on these auction rate securities. It is possible that a secondary market for auction rate securities may emerge in which securities similar to our own would trade at prices below our currently recorded fair values. Under such a scenario, or if other events arise that impact the fair value of the securities, we may have to recognize further other-than temporary impairment charges, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. It is also possible that continued uncertainty in the credit markets could also impact the liquidity of our other investments and cash equivalents, which could impair our liquidity or require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairment on the value of those investments, which would negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract, retain and assimilate sufficient numbers of managerial, financial, engineering and other technical personnel could have a material effect upon our results of operations. Our continued success depends, in part, upon key managerial, financial, engineering and technical personnel as well as our ability to continue to attract, retain and assimilate additional personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We may not be able to retain our key managerial, financial, engineering and technical employees. Attracting qualified personnel may be difficult and our efforts to attract and retain these personnel may not be successful. In addition, we may not be able to assimilate qualified personnel, including any new members of senior management, which could disrupt our operations. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 