Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements containing the words “believes,” “expects” and similar words, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. From time to time, we may make other forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to an inherent risk that actual results may differ materially. The following information highlights some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Factors that may result in such variances include, but are not limited to, the following: The industries we serve are volatile and unpredictable. Our business is dependent upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers of semiconductors and micro-electronics used in wireless communications, computers and other electronic products. The capital equipment market for semiconductor and micro-electronics manufacturers has historically been characterized by sudden and severe cyclical variations in product supply and demand due to a number of factors including capacity utilization, demand for customers’ products, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. The timing, severity and duration of these market cycles are difficult or impossible to predict. Significant downturns in the market for semiconductor and micro-electronics used in electronic devices reduce demand for our products and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, the recent economic slowdown resulted in a decrease in orders for all of our product groups for each quarter throughout 2009, with virtually no orders for our memory repair systems throughout 2010. Additionally, some of our customers’ ability to access credit was adversely affected, limiting their ability to purchase our products. The degree of the impact on our business of the current economic environment will continue to depend on a number of factors, including the strength and continuity of the recovery in the US economy, the global economy in general, access to capital and stability of the financial system, and overall health of the semiconductor and micro-electronics industries. This impact may cause potential material adverse changes to our financial and operational results. To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries we serve, we must effectively manage our resources and production capacity. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions and effectively manage our supply chain. Our ability to rapidly and effectively reduce our cost structure in response to such downturns is limited by the fixed nature of many of our expenses in the near term and by our need to continue our investment in next-generation product technology and to support and service our products. Conversely, when upturns in this market occur, we may have difficulty rapidly and effectively increasing our manufacturing capacity or procuring sufficient materials to meet sudden increases in customer demand, which could result in the loss of business to our competitors and harm to our relationships with our customers. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We face substantial competition from established competitors throughout the world, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Those competitors with greater resources may, in addition to other things, be able to better withstand periodic downturns, compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, or more quickly develop enhancements to, and new generations of, products that compete with the products we manufacture and market. New companies may enter the markets in which we compete, or industry consolidation may occur, further increasing competition in those markets. Furthermore, our technological advantages may be reduced or lost as a result of technological advances by our competitors. 9 Table of Contents Moreover, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by competitive pressure and intense price-based competition. We have experienced and continue to experience significant price competition in the sale of our products. In addition, pricing pressures typically have become more intense during cyclical downturns when competitors seek to maintain or increase market share, reduce inventory or introduce more technologically advanced products. We believe that to be competitive we must continue to expend significant financial resources in order to, among other things, invest in new product development and enhancements. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins and loss of market share. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which could negatively impact our business. Our revenues, operating margins and other operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon a variety of factors, including: • demand for our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor and micro-electronics manufacturing industries and the markets upon which they depend or otherwise; • changes in the timing and terms of product orders by our customers as a result of our customer concentration or otherwise; • changes in the mix of products and services that we offer; • timing and market acceptance of our new product introductions; • delays or problems in the planned introduction of new products, or in the performance of any such products following delivery to customers; • our competitors’ announcements of new products, services or technological innovations, which can, among other things, render our products less competitive due to the rapid technological change in our industry; • the timing and related costs of any acquisitions, divestitures or other strategic transactions; • our ability to reduce our costs in response to decreased demand for our products and services; • disruptions in our manufacturing process or in the supply of components to us; • write-offs for excess or obsolete inventory; and • competitive pricing pressures. These risks may be exacerbated by the fact that we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of a relatively small numbers of products. As a result of these risks, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change and innovation, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address technological changes and the requirements of current and potential customers. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. The introduction by us or by our competitors of 10 Table of Contents new or enhanced products, or alternative technologies, may cause our customers to defer, change or cancel orders for our existing products or cease purchasing our products altogether. For example, for many years the semi-conductor memory industry has employed alternative redundancy technologies. The adoption by our customers of electrical redundancy technology could have a material adverse effect on demand for our SG products. Further, we cannot assure that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technology changes or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to develop new or enhanced products to address product or technology changes or new industry standards on a timely basis or at all, or if our new or enhanced products are not accepted by the market, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We depend on a few significant customers, none of which are bound by long-term contracts, for a large portion of our revenues. We depend on a few significant customers for a large portion of our revenues. In fiscal 2010, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% of total net sales, with one customer accounting for approximately 30% of total net sales. We anticipate that sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Consolidation between customers, changes in various partnership and technology arrangements between customers, customer bankruptcies or customer departures from their respective industries all may result in even fewer customers accounting for a high percentage of our revenue. For example, in early calendar 2009 Qimonda AG, historically one of our top European customers, went bankrupt. None of our customers have any long-term obligation to continue to buy our products or services. As a result, our customers may delay, reduce or cease ordering our products or services at any time. Cancellations, reductions or deferrals could result from a number of factors, including a prolonged or additional downturn in the semiconductor or micro-electronics industries, manufacturing delays, completion of new product manufacturing ramp-up by customers, quality or reliability issues with our products, the development and introduction of new products and technologies by our competitors, or interruptions to our customers’ operations due to fire, natural disasters or other events. In particular, the markets we serve are subject to significant and unpredictable volatility, and downturns in those markets reduce demand for our products. In the future, the cancellation, reduction or deferral of purchases of our products by even a single customer could significantly reduce our revenues in any particular quarter. If we were to lose any of our significant customers or suffer a material reduction in their purchase orders, revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient product quantities in a timely and cost-effective manner could negatively affect our business. We use a wide range of materials from numerous suppliers in the manufacture of our products, including custom electronic, laser and mechanical components. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. We seek to reduce the risk of production and service interruptions and shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, some key parts are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers in the short term. In addition, some of the lasers we use in our products are difficult to manufacture, and as a result we may not receive an adequate supply of lasers in a timely fashion to fill orders. Operations at our suppliers’ facilities are subject to disruption or discontinuation for a variety of reasons, including changes in business relationships, competitive factors, financial difficulties, work stoppages, fire, natural disasters or other causes. Any such disruption or discontinuation to our suppliers’ operations could interrupt or reduce our manufacturing activities and delay delivery of our products, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, as markets recover, there is a heightened risk that one or more of our suppliers may not be able to meet increased demand requirements, adversely impacting our ability to fulfill orders and win business with our customers. 11 Table of Contents The failure of our contract manufacturers to timely perform could negatively affect our business. We have arrangements with contract manufacturers to complete the manufacture of certain of our products or product subcomponents. Any significant interruption in our contract manufacturers’ ability to provide manufacturing services to us as a result of contractual disputes with us or another party, labor disruptions, financial difficulties, natural disasters, delay or interruption in the receipt of inventory or other causes could result in reduced manufacturing capabilities or delayed deliveries for certain of our products, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may recognize charges for excess or obsolete inventory if our demand projections are incorrect or our technology strategy changes. Our business is highly competitive and one factor on which we compete is the ability to ship products on schedules required by customers. In order to facilitate timely shipping, management forecasts demand, both in type and amount of products, and these forecasts are used to determine inventory to be purchased. We also order materials based on our technology roadmap, which represents management’s assessment of technology that will be utilized in new products that we develop. Certain types of inventory, including lasers and optical equipment, are particularly expensive and may only be used in the production of a single type of product. If actual demand is lower than forecast with respect to the type or amount of products actually ordered, or both, our inventory levels may increase. For example, at April 3, 2010, we had $72.1 million of inventory reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, much of which we purchased or committed to purchase prior to the time the severity of the recent economic downturn became apparent. As a result, there is a risk that we may have to incur material accounting charges for excess and obsolete inventory if inventory cannot be used, which would negatively affect our financial results. Also, if we alter our technology or product development strategy, we may have inventory which may not be usable under the new strategy, which may also result in material accounting charges. For example, during fiscal 2009, we wrote-off $4.1 million of material from a research, development and engineering program due to a change in our product development strategy. We may not be able to protect the proprietary rights upon which our business depends. Our success depends significantly upon the protection of our proprietary rights. We attempt to protect our proprietary rights through patents, copyrights, trademarks, maintenance of trade secrets and other measures, including entering into confidentiality agreements. We incur substantial costs to obtain and maintain patents and to defend our intellectual property rights. For example, we initiated litigation against All Ring Tech Co., Ltd. in Taiwan in August 2005 alleging that certain of our patent rights had been violated. We rely upon the laws of the United States and foreign countries where we develop, manufacture or sell our products to protect our proprietary rights. We may not be successful in protecting these proprietary rights, these rights may not provide the competitive advantages that we expect, or other parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent these rights. Further, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. Many United States companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries, which could result in reduced sales and gross margins. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement. Several of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies, applications and methods of use similar to some of those used in our products. While we attempt in our designs to avoid patent infringement, from time to time we and our customers have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Competitors or others have in the past and may in the future assert infringement claims against our customers or us with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a 12 Table of Contents license to use intellectual property rights of others. If claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we become subject to infringement claims, we will evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to reduce costs is limited by our need to invest in research and development. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. Because of intense competition in the industries in which we compete, if we were to fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to our current and potential customers or obsolete, and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our need to maintain our spending levels in this area, our operating results could be materially harmed if our net sales decline. In addition, as a result of our emphasis on research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase in the future, and research and development expenses may increase as a percentage of total operating expenses and as a percentage of net sales. We may make acquisitions in the future, which may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value or divert management attention. We may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with complementary products, services or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, many of which are unpredictable and beyond our control, including: • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of the merged businesses; • implementation of our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system into the acquired company’s operations; • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • lack of synergy or inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition; • acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company; • difficulties establishing satisfactory internal controls at the acquired company; • risks and uncertainties relating to the performance of the combined company following the transaction; and • incurring unanticipated liabilities for which we will not be indemnified. Furthermore, the accounting for an acquisition could result in significant charges resulting from amortization of intangible assets we acquire. Our inability to effectively manage these risks could result in our inability to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, all future acquisition transaction costs must be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The means by which we finance an acquisition may also significantly affect our business or the value of the shares of our common stock. If we issue common stock to pay for an acquisition, the ownership percentage of our existing shareholders will be reduced and the value of the shares held by our existing shareholders could be diluted. If we use cash on hand to pay for an acquisition, the payment could significantly reduce the cash that would be available to fund our operations or to use for other purposes. If we borrow funds in connection with an acquisition, we would be required to use cash to service the debt and to comply with financial and other covenants. We may from time to time also make strategic investments in development stage companies. Investments in development stage companies are subject to a high degree of risk. We cannot assure you that we will not lose all or a portion of our investment in any such company. We are implementing our globalization strategy, and if we do not effectively devise and implement an effective globalization plan or if we decide to change our strategy, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We are implementing our globalization strategy in which we are moving certain operational resources and capabilities to different countries in Asia to reduce costs and to be closer to our customers. We believe this implementation will reduce our manufacturing costs for certain products, enhance customer relationships and improve our responsiveness. We are currently implementing the first major phase of this strategy, having opened a larger manufacturing facility in Singapore in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 for certain IMG and PCG products. Our globalization strategy is subject to a variety of complexities and risks, many of which we have little experience managing, and which may divert a substantial amount of management’s time. These risks include: • challenges in designing new facilities that can be scaled for future expansion, replicating current processes and bringing new facilities up to full operation; • unpredictable costs, redundancy costs and cost overruns for developing new facilities and acquiring equipment; • building local management teams, technical personnel and other staff for functions that we have not previously conducted outside of the United States; • technical obstacles such as poor production or process yield and loss of quality control during the ramp of a new facility; • requalifications and other procedures that may be required by our customers; • our ability to bring up local suppliers to meet our quality and cycle-time needs; • rapidly changing business conditions that may require plans to be changed or abandoned before they are fully implemented; and • challenges posed by distance and by differences in language and culture. These and other factors could delay the development and implementation of our strategy, as well as impair our gross margins, delay shipments and deliveries, cause us to lose sales, require us to write off investments already made, damage our reputation and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If we decide to change our current global regionalization strategy, we may incur charges for certain costs incurred. We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business, including risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, legal and regulatory changes and the impact of regional and global economic disruptions. International shipments accounted for 90% of net sales in 2010, with 83% of our net sales to customers in Asia. We expect that international shipments will continue to represent a significant percentage of net sales in the future. We also have significant foreign operations, including a Singapore manufacturing facility, research and 14 Table of Contents development facilities in Taiwan and China, and sales and service offices in various countries. Under our globalization strategy, we intend to increase our foreign operations in the future. Our non-U.S. sales, purchases and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including the following: • periodic local or geographic economic downturns and unstable political conditions; • price and currency exchange controls; • fluctuation in the relative values of currencies; • difficulties protecting intellectual property; • compliance with labor laws and other laws governing employees; • local labor disputes; • shipping delays and disruptions; • increases in shipping costs, caused by increased fuel costs or otherwise, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers; • unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; and • difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable, managing suppliers, distributors and representatives, and repatriating earnings. Our business and operating results could also be impacted, directly or indirectly, by natural disasters, outbreaks of infectious disease, military action, international conflicts, terrorist activities, civil unrest and associated political instability. Any such events or circumstances may result in heightened security concerns with respect to domestic and international travel and commerce, which may further affect our business and operating results. In particular, due to these uncertainties, we are subject to the following additional risks: • future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities; • more frequent instances of shipping delays; • demand for our products may not increase or may decrease; and • our customers or suppliers may experience financial difficulties or cease operations. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations may lead to lower operating margins or may cause us to raise prices. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations and we could experience losses with respect to forward exchange contracts into which we may enter. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to unfavorable currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, many of our foreign sales are denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold and the currency we receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. From time to time, we enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge the value of accounts receivable primarily denominated in Japanese yen and other currencies. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation and we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation from one period to the next because the income tax rates for each year are a function of many factors, including: (a) taxable income levels and the effects of a mix of profits (losses) earned by ESI and our subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, (b) our ability to utilize deferred tax assets, (c) taxes, refunds, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits, (d) the magnitude of various credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income and (e) changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Changes in the mix of these items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, we are frequently under audits by United States and foreign tax authorities. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result of these audits. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and the impact of changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws could result in material differences from what is reflected in historical income tax accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an examination, a material effect on our financial results, tax positions or cash flows could occur in the period or periods in which the determination is made. No significant market currently exists for the auction rate securities we hold and we may not be able to liquidate them at the current valuation, if at all, and we may recognize impairment charges if their estimated fair values decline. As of April 3, 2010, we held a total of $13.7 million invested in auction rate securities (ARS) at par value. Additionally, we held $4.0 million of par value ARS which were converted by the bond issuer to its preferred stock during the third quarter of 2009. These securities were recorded at an estimated fair value of $5.0 million as of April 3, 2010. The contractual maturities of these securities range up to calendar year 2050, and several securities and the preferred stock do not have stated maturities. As a result of disruptions experienced in the global credit and capital markets, the auctions that previously provided liquidity for the ARS began to fail during the second fiscal quarter of 2008. Since that time, none of these securities have traded through the auction process and few market transactions for these securities have been observed. Additionally, the bond insurers that guarantee the ARS experienced credit rating downgrades and the issuer of the preferred stock suspended dividend payments. Consequently, we recognized significant write downs of the ARS as a result of the declines in fair value and the ARS are categorized as non-current assets. We cannot reasonably predict if or when our remaining ARS will become liquid, and it is not possible to ascertain when or whether market conditions will change resulting in the recovery of fair value on these auction rate securities. It is possible that a secondary market for the underlying securities will develop in which trading prices fall below our currently recorded fair values. Under such a scenario, or if other events arise that impact the fair value of the securities, we may have to recognize further losses, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. It is possible that continued uncertainty in the credit markets could also impact the liquidity of our other investments and cash equivalents, which could impair our liquidity or require us to recognize impairment charges on the value of those investments, which would negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Our intangible assets may become impaired. We held $8.4 million in definite-lived acquired intangible assets at April 3, 2010. We review these intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If such an adverse event occurred and had the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or 16 Table of Contents estimates related to the fair value of our intangible assets, an impairment charge could result. For example, during fiscal 2009, as a result of a decrease in our market capitalization, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $17.4 million to write off all existing goodwill. Any such impairment charges may have a material negative impact on our financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to retain, attract and assimilate key managerial, financial, engineering and other technical personnel. Our continued success depends in part upon the services of our key managerial, financial and technical personnel. The loss of key personnel, or our inability to attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel, could result in the loss of customers, inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have previously had to, and may in the future have to, impose salary reductions on senior employees during economic downturns in an effort to maintain our financial position. These actions may have an adverse effect on employee loyalty and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the industries in which we compete is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to recruit and retain key personnel, which could affect our financial position and results of operations. We are exposed to lawsuits in the normal course of business. We have been and may in the future be subject to various legal proceedings, including claims that involve possible infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of litigation matters, and there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management’s attention, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in loss of our property rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our products are highly complex and may contain defects or errors. Our products are highly complex, and our extensive product development, manufacturing and testing processes may not be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could impact customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. As a result, we may have to replace certain components or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products after they are shipped. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers and other losses to us or to our customers. These occurrences could also result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We are subject to numerous governmental regulations. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations, including environmental regulations and regulations relating to the design and operation of our products. We may incur significant costs as we seek to ensure that our products meet safety standards, many of which vary across the states and countries in which our products are used. Compliance with future regulations, directives and standards could require us to modify or redesign some products, make capital expenditures or incur substantial costs. If we do not comply with current or future regulations, directives and standards, we could be subject to fines, our production or shipments could be suspended, and we could be prohibited from offering particular products in specified markets. If we are unable to comply with current or future regulations, directives and standards, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including new Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, new NASDAQ Global Select Market rules and new accounting requirements have the potential to create uncertainty and result in additional governance and disclosure complexities for companies such as ours. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all other current and future standards. These investments may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from strategic revenue generating and cost management activities. We may be unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules that require us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K a report by management assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, and report on the effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting. Although we regularly review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in complying with the requirements of Section 404. Our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could cause (a) investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or (b) a delay in our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, each of which could, in addition to a number of other adverse consequences, negatively impact our stock price. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. During fiscal 2010, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $14.36 per share and a low of $5.92 per share. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price, many of which our outside of our control, may include: • variations in operating results from quarter to quarter; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; • changes in the market price per share of our public company customers; • market conditions in the semiconductor and other industries into which we sell products; • general economic conditions; • political changes, hostilities or natural disasters; • low trading volume of our common stock; and • the number of firms making a market in our common stock. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market prices of the securities of high-technology companies like ours. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our charter documents, our shareholder rights plan and Oregon law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, the 18 Table of Contents Oregon Control Share Act and the Oregon Business Combination Act limit the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over us. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of our Board of Directors, may deter efforts to obtain control of us and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 