ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The foregoing business discussion and the other information included in this Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the following risks, trends and uncertainties, any of which, either individually or in the aggregate, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Advertising demand will continue to be impacted by changes in economic conditions and fragmentation of the media landscape Advertising revenue is the primary source of revenue for our publishing and broadcasting businesses. National and local economic conditions, particularly in major metropolitan markets, affect the levels of retail, national and classified newspaper advertising revenue, as well as television advertising revenue. Changes in Gross Domestic Product, consumer spending, auto sales, housing sales, unemployment rates, job creation and circulation levels and rates all impact demand for advertising. Consolidation across various industries, particularly large department store and telecommunications companies, may also reduce our overall advertising revenue. Competition from other media, including other metropolitan, suburban and national newspapers, broadcasters, cable systems and networks, satellite television and radio, websites, magazines, direct marketing and solo and shared mail programs, affects our ability to retain advertising clients and raise rates. In recent years, Internet sites devoted to recruitment, automobile and real estate have become significant competitors of our newspapers and websites for classified advertising. While we have invested in successful Internet ventures such as CareerBuilder and Classified Ventures to capture some of the advertising dollars that have migrated online, retaining our historical share of classified advertising revenues remains a challenge. Seasonal variations in consumer spending cause our quarterly advertising revenues to fluctuate. Second and fourth quarter advertising revenues are typically higher than first and third quarter advertising revenues, reflecting the slower economic activity in the winter and summer and the stronger fourth quarter holiday season. In broadcasting, the proliferation of cable and satellite channels, advances in mobile and wireless technology, the migration of television audiences to the Internet and the viewing public’s increased control over the manner and timing of their media consumption through personal video recording devices, have resulted in greater fragmentation of the television viewing audience and a more difficult sales environment. Circulation and audience share may decline as consumers migrate to other media alternatives Competition for newspaper advertising is based on reader demographics, price, service, advertiser results, and circulation and readership levels, while competition for circulation is based upon the content of the newspaper, service and price. Competition for television advertising is based on audience share and ratings information, audience demographics and price. The National Do Not Call Registry has impacted the way newspapers sell home-delivery circulation, particularly for the larger newspapers that historically have relied on telemarketing. Similarly, Nielsen’s Local People Meters, which capture viewership data in a different manner than historical Nielsen viewership data collection methods, have tended to reduce the overall share of broadcast television compared to cable television and, within the broadcast television universe, disadvantage stations like ours that target younger audiences. Both advertising and circulation revenues are being affected by consumer trends, including declining newspaper buying by young people and the migration to other available forms of media for news. In order to address declining circulation in certain markets, we may increase marketing designed to retain our 21 existing subscriber base and continue to introduce niche publications targeted at commuters and young adults. We may also increase marketing efforts to drive traffic to our proprietary websites. Changes in the regulatory landscape could affect our business operations and asset mix Various aspects of our operations are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States. Changes in the current regulatory environment could result in increased operating costs or divestitures of several of our properties. Our television and radio broadcasting operations are subject to FCC jurisdiction under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. FCC rules, among other things, govern the term, renewal and transfer of radio and television broadcasting licenses and limit concentrations of broadcasting control inconsistent with the public interest. Federal law also regulates the rates charged for both political advertising and the quantity of advertising within children’s programs. From time to time, the FCC revises existing regulations and policies in ways that could affect our broadcasting operations. In addition, Congress from time to time considers and adopts substantive amendments to governing communications legislation. We cannot predict what regulations or legislation may be proposed or finally enacted or what effect, if any, such regulations or legislation could have on our broadcasting operations. See “Item 1. Business—Governmental Regulation” for a discussion of the pending FCC review of the television/newspaper cross-ownership rule and the effect the outcome could have on our business. The availability and cost of quality syndicated programming may impact television ratings The cost of syndicated programming represents a significant portion of television operating expenses. Programming emphasis at our stations is placed on network-provided programming, syndicated series, feature motion pictures, local and regional sports coverage, news, and children’s programs. Most of our stations’ programming is acquired from outside sources, including the networks with which our stations are affiliated, and some is produced locally or supplied by Tribune Entertainment Company. Syndicated programming costs are impacted largely by market factors, including demand from other stations or cable channels within the market. Availability of syndicated programming depends on the production of compelling programming and the willingness of studios to offer the programming to unaffiliated buyers. Our inability to continue to acquire or produce affordable programming for our stations could adversely affect operating results or our financial condition. Events beyond our control may result in unexpected adverse operating results Our results could be affected in various ways by global or domestic events beyond our control, such as wars, political unrest, acts of terrorism, and natural disasters. Such events can quickly result in significant declines in advertising revenues and significant increases in newsgathering costs. Coverage of the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina are two examples where newsgathering costs increased and, in the case of Hurricane Katrina, revenues dropped off significantly at our two New Orleans television stations. Newsprint prices may continue to be volatile and difficult to predict and control Newsprint is one of the largest expenses of our publishing units. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile and the consolidation of North American newsprint mills over the years has reduced the number of suppliers. We have historically been able to realize favorable newsprint pricing by virtue of our company-wide volume and a long-term contract with a significant supplier. Failure to maintain our current consumption levels, further supplier consolidation or the inability to maintain our existing relationships with our newsprint suppliers could adversely impact newsprint prices in the future. 22 We have certain risks relating to our existing credit agreements. In June 2006, the Company entered into a five-year credit agreement and a 364-day bridge credit agreement. The five-year credit agreement provides for a $1.5 billion unsecured term facility and a $750 million unsecured revolving facility. The 364-day bridge credit agreement provided for a $2.15 billion unsecured bridge facility. As of Dec. 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion under the term facility and the bridge facility, respectively, and the Company had no borrowings under the revolving facility. For additional information regarding these credit agreements, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Significant Events—Credit Agreements.” Interest rates for our borrowings under these credit agreements are affected by our credit ratings. Increased debt levels and/or decreased earnings could result in downgrades in these ratings, which could increase our borrowing costs under our existing credit agreements and could raise our other borrowing rates. In addition, borrowings under these credit agreements bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR plus a spread determined on the basis of the Company’s credit ratings. Accordingly, changes in LIBOR may adversely affect our cost of borrowings. For additional discussion of interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” Further, the Company intends to refinance borrowings under the bridge facility prior to maturity. Refinancing these borrowings on similar financial terms will be contingent upon a number of factors, including the outcome of the Company’s exploration of strategic alternatives, financial market conditions and the Company’s credit ratings. Changes in accounting standards can significantly impact reported earnings and operating results Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our business, including those related to intangible assets, pensions, income taxes, derivatives, share-based compensation, and broadcast rights, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating results From time to time, Tribune and its subsidiaries are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. We could be faced with additional tax liabilities We are subject to both federal and state income taxes and are regularly audited by federal and state taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and in establishing appropriate reserves. We analyze our tax positions and reserves on an ongoing basis and make adjustments when warranted based on changes in facts and circumstances. While we believe our tax positions and reserves are reasonable, the resolution of our tax issues are unpredictable and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, net income or cash flows for the period or periods in question. 23 Labor strikes, lock-outs and protracted negotiations can lead to business interruptions and increased operating costs Union employees currently comprise about 14% of our workforce. We are required to negotiate collective bargaining agreements across our business units on an ongoing basis. Complications in labor negotiations can lead to work slowdowns or other business interruptions and greater overall employee costs. Acquisitions, investments and divestitures pose inherent financial and other risks and challenges We continuously evaluate our businesses and make strategic acquisitions and investments, either individually or with partners, and divestitures as part of our strategic plan. These transactions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration. Moreover, competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant, particularly in the Interactive space. Even if successfully negotiated, closed and integrated, certain acquisitions or investments may prove not to advance our business strategy and may fall short of expected return on investment targets. In certain of our investments, we take a minority position in a company with limited voting rights and an inability to exert absolute control over the entity. The effects and results of our exploration of strategic alternatives are uncertain On Sept. 21, 2006, we announced that our board of directors established an independent special committee to oversee management’s exploration of alternatives for creating additional value for shareholders. There can be no assurance that the exploration of alternatives will result in a transaction. Further, it is not certain what impact any particular alternative, or lack thereof, may have on our stock price, credit ratings, operating results, financial condition or business prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 24 