ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The foregoing business discussion and the other information included in this Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the following risks, trends and uncertainties, any of which, either individually or in the aggregate, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We currently have significant debt and other financial obligations as a result of the Leveraged ESOP Transactions. We have significant debt and other financial obligations as a result of the Leveraged ESOP Transactions. As of Dec. 30, 2007, we had approximately $12.8 billion of total debt outstanding. In connection with the Leveraged ESOP Transactions, we entered into the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement and, in order to finance the Leveraged ESOP Transactions, we borrowed approximately $9.1 billion under the Credit Agreement and $1.6 billion under the Interim Credit Agreement. As described in more detail in Item 1. Business “Significant Events,” the $1.4 billion of borrowings under the Tranche X Facility in the Credit Agreement must be repaid in an aggregate amount of $650 million on Dec. 4, 2008, less any mandatory or other prepayments applied thereto, and the remaining outstanding amount of the Tranche X Facility must be repaid on June 4, 2009. The Credit Agreement also provides for a $750 million revolving credit facility that may be used for general corporate purposes and a $263 million delayed draw facility to be used to refinance medium-term notes which mature in 2008. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement are guaranteed by certain of our direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries and borrowings under the Credit Agreement are secured by a pledge of the equity interests of Tribune Broadcasting Holdco, LLC and Tribune Finance, LLC, two of our subsidiaries. Audited financial statements of these two subsidiaries are included in Part II, Item 8, hereof. In addition to our borrowings under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement, we also continue to have outstanding approximately $1.4 billion aggregate amount of our debentures and other senior notes and approximately $600 million of PHONES debt. Our significantly increased debt level and related debt service obligations: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which will reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; · limit our liquidity and operational flexibility and our ability to respond to the challenging general and industry-specific economic and business conditions that currently exist or that we may face in the future; · may require us in the future to defer planned capital expenditures, further reduce the size of our workforce, reduce discretionary spending, dispose of assets or forgo acquisitions or other strategic opportunities, any of which decisions may affect our revenues and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and who, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns or pursue key acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; · impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; · expose us to increased interest rate risk because a substantial portion of our debt obligations are at variable interest rates; and 23 · subject us to market and industry speculation as to our financial condition and the effect of our debt level and debt service obligations on our operations, which speculation could be disruptive to our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, creditors and other third parties. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service or make required repayments of our indebtedness and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. We have significant interest expense and principal repayment obligations. Assuming the consummation of the Leveraged ESOP Transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal year 2007, our pro forma interest expense for the twelve months ended Dec. 30, 2007 would have been approximately $1.0 billion assuming the LIBOR rates as of March 10, 2008. Further, the $1.4 billion of borrowings under the Tranche X Facility in the Credit Agreement must be repaid in an aggregate amount of $650 million on Dec. 4, 2008, less any mandatory or other prepayments applied thereto, and the remaining outstanding amount of the Tranche X Facility must be repaid on June 4, 2009. Our ability to make scheduled payments or prepayments on our debt and other financial obligations will depend on our future financial and operating performance and our ability to dispose of assets on favorable terms. There can be no assurances that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings under the revolving credit facility will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs or that any such asset dispositions can be completed. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic and industry conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In 2007, publishing operating revenues decreased 9% primarily due to a decrease in advertising revenue. We have experienced accelerating declines in publishing operating revenues in 2008 to date. Our increased leverage exposes us to significant risk during periods of downturns in our businesses (whether through competitive pressures or otherwise), in our industries or in the economy generally, as our cash flows would likely decrease in this scenario, but our required principal payments in respect of indebtedness do not change and our interest expense obligations could increase due to increases in interest rates. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we will likely face increased pressure to reduce or delay capital expenditures, dispose of assets or operations, further reduce the size of our workforce, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement. For example, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In the absence of improved operating results and access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds realized. Additionally, these proceeds may not be adequate to meet the debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments or prepayments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. 24 Restrictive covenants under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement may adversely affect our operations and liquidity. The Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness and/or subsidiary indebtedness; · make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments; · dispose of our assets; · grant liens on our assets; · engage in transactions with affiliates; and · merge or consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. In addition, the covenants in the Credit Agreement require us to comply with a specified maximum total guaranteed leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants or any of the other restrictive covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement, the lenders: · will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; · could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; · could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or · could require us to engage in other restructuring transactions that could materially affect our stakeholders’ interest in the Company or our business operations; any of which could also result in an event of default under our indentures governing our existing senior notes or PHONES debt. We are a holding company and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Tribune Company is a holding company with limited direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests that we hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to legal or 25 regulatory restrictions on dividends. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ cash flows. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. As of Dec. 30, 2007, approximately $10.6 billion of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement, were at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement discussed in Item 1, Business “Significant Events”, we are required to enter into hedge arrangements to offset a percentage of our interest rate exposure under the Credit Agreement and other debt with respect to borrowed money. We are party to three interest rate swaps confirmations with Barclays Bank, which provides for (i) a two-year hedge with respect to $750 million in notional amount, (ii) a three-year hedge with respect to $1 billion in notional amount and (iii) a five-year hedge with respect to $750 million in notional amount. The swaps confirmations effectively converted a portion of the variable rate borrowings under the Tranche B Facility in the Credit Agreement to a weighted average fixed rate of 5.31% plus a margin of 300 basis points. We are also party to an additional interest rate swap agreement related to the $100 million 7.5% debentures due in 2023 which effectively converts the fixed 7.5% rate to a variable rate based on LIBOR. Although we may enter into additional interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps will be effective. If we fail to maintain our election to be treated as a subchapter S corporation under the Internal Revenue Code, we will remain subject to federal income tax and, in the future, may be required to obtain a significant investment in the Company. The Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement require that we make and maintain an election to be treated as a subchapter S corporation under the Internal Revenue Code. As discussed in Item 1, Business “Significant Events”, on March 13, 2008, we filed an election to be treated as a subchapter S Corporation under the Internal Revenue Code effective for fiscal year 2008 and beyond. Subject to certain limitations (such as the built-in gains tax applicable for ten years to gains accrued prior to the election), as a result of this election we are no longer subject to federal income tax. Instead, our income is required to be reported by our shareholders. The Company’s Employee Stock Ownership Plan is generally not taxed on the amount of income that is passed through to it. If we fail to maintain the election, we will once again be subject to federal income tax. Further, if we fail to maintain the S corporation election for any year beginning with 2009, then we will be required under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement in each such year to obtain an investment in the Company in the form of common stock or subordinated debt of the Company in an amount up to $100 million. If we are unable to keep the S corporation election effective as a result of governmental, regulatory or administrative challenge or change in law, rule or regulation, we will not be required under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement to obtain such an investment for so long as we are diligently contesting in good faith by appropriate proceedings our inability to keep such election effective. However, if after contesting our inability to keep such election effective we are still unable to keep the S corporation election effective, we will be required by the terms of the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement to obtain an investment of up to $100 million per year in respect of all applicable years beginning with 2009 for which the S corporation was not effective. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such an investment and the failure to obtain such an investment in those circumstances could result in a default under the Credit Agreement and the Interim Credit Agreement and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. 26 Risks Related to Our Business Advertising demand will continue to be impacted by changes in economic conditions and fragmentation of the media landscape. Advertising revenue is the primary source of revenue for our publishing and broadcasting businesses. National and local economic conditions, particularly in major metropolitan markets, affect the levels of retail, national and classified newspaper advertising revenue, as well as television advertising revenue. Changes in Gross Domestic Product, consumer spending, auto sales, housing sales, unemployment rates, job creation and circulation levels and rates all impact demand for advertising. Consolidation across various industries, particularly large department store and telecommunications companies, may also reduce our overall advertising revenue. Competition from other media, including other metropolitan, suburban and national newspapers, broadcasters, cable systems and networks, satellite television and radio, websites, magazines, direct marketing and solo and shared mail programs, affects our ability to retain advertising clients and raise rates. In recent years, Internet sites devoted to recruitment, automobile and real estate have become significant competitors of our newspapers and websites for classified advertising. While we have invested in successful Internet ventures such as CareerBuilder and Classified Ventures to capture some of the advertising dollars that have migrated online, retaining our historical share of classified advertising revenues remains a challenge. Seasonal variations in consumer spending cause our quarterly advertising revenues to fluctuate. Second and fourth quarter advertising revenues are typically higher than first and third quarter advertising revenues, reflecting the slower economic activity in the winter and summer and the stronger fourth quarter holiday season. In broadcasting, the proliferation of cable and satellite channels, advances in mobile and wireless technology, the migration of television audiences to the Internet and the viewing public’s increased control over the manner and timing of their media consumption through personal video recording devices, have resulted in greater fragmentation of the television viewing audience and a more difficult sales environment. All of these factors continue to contribute to a difficult sales environment and may further adversely impact our ability to grow or maintain our revenues. Circulation and audience share may continue to decline as consumers migrate to other media alternatives. Competition for newspaper advertising is based on reader demographics, price, service, advertiser results, and circulation and readership levels, while competition for circulation is based upon the content of the newspaper, service and price. Competition for television advertising is based on audience share and ratings information, audience demographics and price. The National Do Not Call Registry has impacted the way newspapers sell home-delivery circulation, particularly for the larger newspapers that historically have relied on telemarketing. Similarly, Nielsen’s Local People Meters, which capture viewership data in a different manner than historical Nielsen viewership data collection methods, have tended to reduce the overall share of broadcast television compared to cable television and, within the broadcast television universe, disadvantage stations like ours that target younger audiences. Our advertising and circulation revenues have declined, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry, including declining newspaper buying by young people and the migration to other available forms of media for news. In order to address declining circulation in certain markets, we may increase marketing designed to retain our existing subscriber base and continue to introduce niche publications targeted at commuters and young adults. We may also increase marketing efforts to drive traffic to our proprietary websites. 27 Changes in the regulatory landscape could affect our business operations and asset mix. Various aspects of our operations are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States. Changes in the current regulatory environment could result in increased operating costs or divestitures of several of our properties. Our television and radio broadcasting operations are subject to FCC jurisdiction under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. FCC rules, among other things, govern the term, renewal and transfer of radio and television broadcasting licenses and limit concentrations of broadcasting control inconsistent with the public interest. Federal law also regulates the rates charged for both political advertising and the quantity of advertising within children’s programs. From time to time, the FCC revises existing regulations and policies in ways that could affect our broadcasting operations. In addition, Congress from time to time considers and adopts substantive amendments to governing communications legislation. We cannot predict what regulations or legislation may be proposed, what regulations or legislation may be finally enacted, or what effect, if any, such regulations or legislation could have on our broadcasting operations. See ‘‘Business—Governmental Regulation’’ in Item 1, hereof for a discussion of the newly proposed television/newspaper cross-ownership rule and the effect the outcome could have on our business. The availability and cost of quality network-provided and syndicated programming may impact television ratings. The cost of syndicated programming represents a significant portion of television operating expenses. Programming emphasis at our stations is placed on network-provided programming, syndicated series, feature motion pictures, local and regional sports coverage, news, and children’s programs. Most of our stations’ programming is acquired from outside sources, including the networks with which our stations are affiliated, and some is produced locally or supplied by Tribune Entertainment Company. Network-provided programming is dependent on our ability to maintain our existing network affiliations and the continued existence of such networks. Syndicated programming costs are impacted largely by market factors, including demand from other stations or cable channels within the market. Availability of syndicated programming depends on the production of compelling programming and the willingness of studios to offer the programming to unaffiliated buyers. Our inability to continue to acquire or produce affordable programming for our stations could adversely affect operating results or our financial condition. Events beyond our control may result in unexpected adverse operating results. Our results could be affected in various ways by global or domestic events beyond our control, such as wars, political unrest, acts of terrorism, and natural disasters. Such events can quickly result in significant declines in advertising revenues and significant increases in newsgathering costs. Coverage of the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina are two examples where newsgathering costs increased and, in the case of Hurricane Katrina, revenues dropped off significantly at our two New Orleans television stations. Newsprint prices may continue to be volatile and difficult to predict and control. Newsprint is one of the largest expenses of our publishing units. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile and the consolidation of North American newsprint mills over the years has reduced the number of suppliers. We have historically been able to realize favorable newsprint pricing by virtue of our company-wide volume and a long-term contract with a significant supplier. However, recent supplier consolidation has led to increases in newsprint prices. Failure to maintain our current consumption levels, further supplier consolidation or the inability to maintain our existing relationships with our newsprint suppliers could adversely impact newsprint prices in the future. 28 Changes in accounting standards can significantly impact reported earnings and operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our business, including those related to intangible assets, pensions, employee stock ownership plans, income taxes, derivatives, equity-based compensation and broadcast rights, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results. Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. From time to time, Tribune and its subsidiaries are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. See Item 3. ‘‘Legal Proceedings’’ for a description of certain of our pending litigation and regulatory matters and other proceedings with governmental authorities. We could be faced with additional tax liabilities. We are subject to both federal and state income taxes and are regularly audited by federal and state taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and in establishing appropriate reserves. We analyze our tax positions and reserves on an ongoing basis and make adjustments when warranted based on changes in facts and circumstances. While we believe our tax positions and reserves are reasonable, the resolution of our tax issues are unpredictable and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, net income or cash flows for the period or periods in question. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Capital Structure” above for a discussion regarding our election to be treated as a subchapter S Corporation under the Internal Revenue Code effective for fiscal year 2008 and beyond. Labor strikes, lock-outs and protracted negotiations can lead to business interruptions and increased operating costs. Union employees currently comprise about 17% of our workforce. We are required to negotiate collective bargaining agreements across our business units on an ongoing basis. Complications in labor negotiations can lead to work slowdowns or other business interruptions and greater overall employee costs. Acquisitions, investments and divestitures pose inherent financial and other risks and challenges. We intend to pursue dispositions of certain assets or businesses or other transactions to enable us to repay a portion of our indebtedness and meet our financial or operating covenants contained in our debt agreements. In addition, we continuously evaluate our businesses and make strategic acquisitions and investments, either individually or with partners, and divestitures as part of our strategic plan. These transactions involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration. There can be no assurance that any such dispositions can be completed. Moreover, competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant, particularly in the Interactive space. Even if successfully negotiated, closed and integrated, certain acquisitions or investments may prove not to advance our business strategy and may fall short of expected return on investment targets. In certain of our investments, we take a minority position in a company with limited voting rights and an inability to exert absolute control over the entity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 29 