Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements containing the words “believes,” “expects” and similar words, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. From time to time, we may make other forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to an inherent risk that actual results may differ materially. The following information highlights some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Factors that may result in such variances include, but are not limited to, the following:Risks Related to Our Competition and CustomersVolatility of Our Customers’ IndustriesOur business is dependent upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers of microelectronics, semiconductors, computers, wireless communications and other electronic products. The capital equipment market for microelectronics, semiconductor, and consumer electronics manufacturers has historically been characterized by sudden and severe cyclical variations in product supply and demand due to a number of factors including capacity utilization, timing of customers’ new product introductions and demand for their products, inventory levels relative to demand and access to affordable capital. The timing, severity and duration of these market cycles are difficult or impossible to predict. As a result, business levels can vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year. Significant volatility in investment cycles in the market for microelectronics, and semiconductors used in electronic devices or in the market for consumer electronics reduce demand for our products and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, starting in the second half of fiscal 2012, we experienced the negative impact of an uncertain economic environment, slower market growth and overcapacity in several of our markets, which resulted in overall lower order and revenue levels. As a result of these circumstances, our total order volume declined in 2013 compared to 2012 and continued to decline in 2014. The degree of the impact of any downturn on our business depends on a number of factors, including: the strength of the global and United States economies; the overall level of demand for consumer electronics products; the stability of global financial systems; and the overall health of the microelectronics, semiconductor, and consumer electronics industries.10Table of ContentsHighly Competitive MarketsWe face substantial competition from established competitors throughout the world, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Those competitors with greater resources may, in addition to other things, be able to better withstand periodic downturns, compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, or more quickly develop enhancements to, and new generations of, products that compete with the products we manufacture and market. New companies may enter the markets in which we compete, or industry consolidation may occur, further increasing competition in those markets. We have also experienced new entrants to our markets offering aggressive price and payments terms in an attempt to gain market share. Some competitors, particularly in China, also develop low cost products employing processes or technology developed by us. We believe that to be competitive we must continue to expend significant financial resources in order to, among other things, invest in new product development and enhancements. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins and loss of market share.Increased Price PressureWe have experienced and continue to experience pricing pressure in the sale of our products, from both competitors and customers. Pricing pressures typically have become more intense during cyclical downturns when competitors seek to maintain or increase market share, reduce inventory or introduce more technologically advanced products or lower cost products. In addition, we may agree to pricing concessions or extended payment terms with our customers in connection with volume orders or to improve cost of ownership in highly competitive applications. Our business, financial condition, margins or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by competitive pressure and intense price-based competition.Revenues are Largely Dependent on Few CustomersWe depend on a few significant customers for a large portion of our revenues. In 2014, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 41% of total net sales, with one customer, Apple Inc. and its affiliates accounting for approximately 15% of total net sales. We anticipate that sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Consolidation between customers, changes in technologies or solutions used by customers, changes in products manufactured by customers or in end-user demand for those products, selection of suppliers other than us, customer bankruptcies or customer departures from their respective industries all may result in even fewer customers accounting for a high percentage of our revenue and reduced demand from any single major customer. Also, business levels with several of our top customers are dependent on our winning new designs and features each product cycle, and there is no guarantee of future business based on past design wins. Furthermore, none of our customers have any long-term obligation to continue to buy our products or services and may therefore delay, reduce or cease ordering our products or services at any time. The cancellation, reduction or deferral of purchases of our products by even a single customer could significantly reduce our revenues in any particular quarter. For example, revenues from Apple, Inc. decreased from $67 million or 31% of revenue in 2013 to $27 million or 15% of revenue in 2014. If we were to lose any of our significant customers or suffer a material reduction in their purchase orders, revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Revenues are Largely Based on the Sale of a Small Number of Product UnitsWe derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of a relatively small number of products. Accordingly, our revenues, margins and other operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending upon a variety of factors in addition to those described above, including:•changes in the timing of orders and terms or acceptance of product shipments by our customers;•changes in the mix of products and services that we sell;•timing and market acceptance of our new product introductions; and•delays or problems in the planned introduction of new products, or in the performance of any such products following delivery to customers.As a result of these risks, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance.Risks Related to Our Supply Chain and ProductionVariability of Production Capacity11Table of ContentsTo meet rapidly changing demand in the industries we serve, we must effectively manage our resources and production capacity. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions and effectively manage our supply chain. Our ability to rapidly and effectively reduce our cost structure in response to such downturns is limited by the fixed nature of many of our expenses in the near term and by our need to continue our investment in next-generation product technology and to support and service our products. Conversely, when upturns occur in the markets we serve, we may have difficulty rapidly and effectively increasing our manufacturing capacity or procuring sufficient materials to meet sudden increases in customer demand that could result in the loss of business to our competitors and harm to our relationships with our customers. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.Reliance on Critical SuppliersWe use a wide range of components from numerous suppliers in the manufacture of our products, including custom electronic, laser, optical and mechanical components. We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. We seek to reduce the risk of production and service interruptions and shortages of key parts by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, some key parts are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers in the short term. In addition, some of the lasers we use in our products are difficult to manufacture, and as a result we may not receive an adequate supply of lasers in a timely fashion to fill orders. Operations at our suppliers’ facilities are subject to disruption or discontinuation for a variety of reasons, including changes in business relationships, competitive factors, financial difficulties, work stoppages, fire, natural disasters or other causes. Any such disruption or discontinuation to our suppliers’ operations could interrupt or reduce our manufacturing activities and delay delivery of our products, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, when markets recover from economic downturns, there is a heightened risk that one or more of our suppliers may not be able to meet our increased demand requirements, adversely impacting our ability to fulfill orders and win business with our customers.Utilization of Contract ManufacturersWe have arrangements with contract manufacturers to complete the manufacturing of certain of our products or product subcomponents. Any significant interruption in our contract manufacturers’ ability to provide manufacturing services to us as a result of contractual disputes with us or another party, labor disruptions, financial difficulties, natural disasters, delay or interruption in the receipt of inventory, customer prioritization or other causes could result in reduced manufacturing capabilities or delayed deliveries for certain of our products, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.Charges for Excess or Obsolete InventoryOne factor on which we compete is the ability to ship products on schedules required by customers. In order to facilitate timely shipping, management forecasts demand, both in type and amount of products, and these forecasts are used to determine inventory to be purchased. We also order materials based on our technology roadmap, which represents management’s assessment of technology that will be utilized in new products that we develop. Certain types of inventory, including lasers and optical equipment, are particularly expensive and may only be used in the production of a single type of product. If actual demand is lower than forecast with respect to the type or amount of products actually ordered, or both, our inventory levels may increase. As a result, there is a risk that we may have to incur material accounting charges for excess and obsolete inventory if inventory cannot be used, which would negatively affect our financial results. Also, if we alter our technology or product development strategy, we may have inventory that may not be usable under the new strategy, which may also result in material accounting charges. For example, during 2014, we recorded $12.8 million of charges in cost of sales for inventory written-off associated with discontinued products.Uncertainties Resulting from Conflict Minerals RegulationOn August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by companies filing public reports. The new rule requires a disclosure report to be filed annually with the SEC and this report will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose, and report whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our 12Table of Contentsproducts, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Risks Related to Our OrganizationOperating a Global BusinessInternational shipments accounted for 83% of net sales in 2014, with 76% of our net shipments to customers in Asia. We expect that international shipments will continue to represent a significant percentage of net sales in the future. We also have significant foreign operations, including manufacturing facilities in Singapore, research and development facilities in Canada, France and Taiwan, and sales and service offices in various countries. Under our globalization strategy, we intend to increase our foreign operations in the future. Our non-U.S. sales, purchases and operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, many of which are outside our control, including the following:•periodic local or geographic economic downturns and unstable political conditions;•price and currency exchange controls;•fluctuation in the relative values of currencies;•difficulty in repatriating money, whether as a result of tax laws or otherwise;•difficulties protecting intellectual property;•compliance with labor laws and other laws governing employees;•local labor disputes;•shipping delays and disruptions;•unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; and•difficulties in managing a global enterprise, including staffing, collecting accounts receivable, and managing suppliers, distributors and representatives.Our business and operating results could also be impacted, directly or indirectly, by natural disasters, outbreaks of infectious disease, military action, international conflicts, terrorist activities, civil unrest and associated political instability. Many of our facilities, including our Portland, Oregon headquarters, are in areas with known earthquake risk. Some of these events or circumstances may also result in heightened security concerns with respect to domestic and international travel and commerce, which may further affect our business and operating results. In particular, due to these uncertainties, we are subject to the following additional risks:•future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities;•more frequent instances of shipping delays;•demand for our products may not increase or may decrease; and•our customers or suppliers may experience financial difficulties or cease operations.Implementation and Modification of Globalization StrategyWe are continuing to implement and expand our globalization strategy in which we are moving certain operational resources and capabilities to different countries in Asia to be closer to many of our significant customers to reduce costs and to develop low cost follow-on solutions to our products. We believe this strategy will enhance customer relationships, improve our responsiveness, reduce our manufacturing costs for certain products and allow us to compete with low cost competitors who develop systems employing processes developed by us. We opened a manufacturing facility in Singapore in the fourth quarter of 2010, which manufactures certain IMG, SG, CG and laser ablation products and is now our primary system manufacturing facility. Our globalization strategy is subject to a variety of complexities and risks, many of which may divert a substantial amount of management’s time. These risks include:•challenges in designing facilities that can be scaled for future expansion, replicating current processes and bringing new facilities up to full operation;•unpredictable costs, redundancy costs and cost overruns for developing facilities and acquiring equipment;•building local management teams, technical personnel and other staff for functions that we have not previously conducted outside of the United States;•technical obstacles such as poor production or process yield and loss of quality control during the ramp of a new facility;•re-qualifications and other procedures that may be required by our customers;•our ability to bring up local suppliers to meet our quality and cycle-time needs;13Table of Contents•our ability to reduce costs in the United States as we add costs elsewhere;•rapidly changing business conditions that may require plans to be changed or abandoned before they are fully implemented; and•challenges posed by distance and by differences in language and culture.These and other factors could delay the continuing development, expansion and implementation of our strategy, as well as impair our gross margins, delay shipments and deliveries, cause us to lose sales, require us to write off investments already made, damage our reputation and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we decide to change our globalization strategy, we may incur charges for certain costs incurred.Acquisitions and DivestituresWe may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses with complementary products, services or technologies, such as our June 2012 acquisition of Eolite Systems and May 2013 acquisition of the Semiconductor Systems business from GSI Group, Inc. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, many of which are unpredictable and beyond our control, including:•difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of personnel, operations, technologies and products of the acquired businesses;•implementation of our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system into the acquired company’s operations;•diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;•the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;•lack of synergy or inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition;•acquired assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance by the acquired company;•difficulties establishing satisfactory internal controls at the acquired company;•risks and uncertainties relating to the performance of the combined company following the transaction; and•acquiring unanticipated liabilities for which we will not be indemnified.Furthermore, the accounting for an acquisition could result in significant charges resulting from amortization or write-off of intangible assets we acquire. Our inability to effectively manage these risks could result in our inability to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, all acquisition transaction costs must be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The means by which we finance an acquisition may also significantly affect our business or the value of the shares of our common stock. If we issue common stock to pay for an acquisition, the ownership percentage of our existing shareholders will be diluted and the value of the shares held by our existing shareholders could be reduced. If we use cash on hand to pay for an acquisition, the payment could significantly reduce the cash that would be available to fund our operations or to use for other purposes. If we borrow funds in connection with an acquisition, we would be required to use cash to service the debt and to comply with financial and other covenants.We may from time to time also make strategic investments in development stage companies. Investments in development stage companies are subject to a high degree of risk. We could lose all or a portion of our investment in any such company or could be required to recognize an impairment charge with respect to our investment. For example, in 2014 we recognized a $9.7 million impairment with respect to our investment in OmniGuide, Inc. based upon a reduction in the company's estimated valuation. Hiring and Retention of PersonnelOur continued success depends in part upon the services of our key managerial, financial and technical personnel. The loss of key personnel, or our inability to attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel, could result in the loss of customers, inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have previously had to, and may in the future have to, impose salary reductions on employees during economic downturns in an effort to maintain our financial position. On several occasions in recent years executives and other employees have received limited or no annual bonuses due to our financial performance relative to the performance parameters in our annual bonus plans. These events may have an adverse effect on employee loyalty and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the industries in which we compete is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to recruit and retain key personnel, which could affect our financial position and results of operations. 14Table of ContentsOur ability to retain key personnel and execute our strategy may also be adversely affected by the transition to a new CEO. In February 2014 Edward C. Grady became our President and Chief Executive Officer, replacing Nicholas Konidaris who held the position since 2004. Risks Related to TechnologyMarkets Characterized by Rapid Technological ChangeThe markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change and innovation, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address technological changes and the requirements of current and potential customers. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. The introduction by us or by our competitors of new or enhanced products, or alternative technologies, may cause our customers to defer, change or cancel orders for our existing products or cease purchasing our products altogether. Further, we cannot assure that our new products will gain timely market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technology changes or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to develop new or enhanced products to address product or technology changes or new industry standards on a timely basis or at all, or if our new or enhanced products are not accepted by the market, or if our customers adopt alternative technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.Need to Invest in Research and DevelopmentOur industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. Because of intense competition in the industries in which we compete, if we were to fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to our current and potential customers or obsolete, and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our need to maintain our spending levels in this area, our operating results could be materially harmed if our net sales decline. In addition, as a result of our emphasis on research and development and technological innovation, our operating costs may increase in the future, and research and development expenses may increase as a percentage of total operating expenses and as a percentage of net sales.Need to Broaden our Marketing and Channel CapabilityThe laser microfabrication industry is comprised of broad set of markets and applications and represents significant opportunities for growth. In order to access these opportunities; we need to broaden our approach from customer centric to being market based. This will require the hiring, development, and application of new marketing capability and channel access. Our ability to successfully access and compete in these broader markets will be partially dependent on our development of these new skills and capabilities. Our inability to do so would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Products are Highly ComplexOur products are highly complex, and our extensive product development, manufacturing and testing processes may not be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could impact customer satisfaction or result in claims against us. As a result, we may have to replace certain components or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products after they are shipped. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers and other losses to us or to our customers. These occurrences could also result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products, loss of sales and increased expenses and warranty costs, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Risks Related to Legal MattersProtection of Proprietary Rights – GenerallyOur success depends significantly upon the protection of our proprietary rights. We attempt to protect our proprietary rights through patents, copyrights, trademarks, maintenance of trade secrets and other measures, including entering into confidentiality agreements. We incur substantial costs to obtain and maintain patents and to defend our intellectual property rights. We rely upon the laws of the United States and foreign countries where we develop, manufacture or sell our products to 15Table of Contentsprotect our proprietary rights. We may not be successful in protecting these proprietary rights, these rights may not provide the competitive advantages that we expect, or other parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent these rights.Protection of Proprietary Rights – Foreign JurisdictionsOur efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. Many United States companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries, which could result in reduced sales and gross margins.Intellectual Property Infringement ClaimsSeveral of our competitors hold patents covering a variety of technologies, applications and methods of use similar to some of those used in our products. While we attempt in our designs to avoid patent infringement, from time to time we and our customers have received correspondence from our competitors claiming that some of our products, as used by our customers, may be infringing one or more of these patents. Competitors or others have in the past and may in the future assert infringement claims against our customers or us with respect to current or future products or uses, and these assertions may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to use intellectual property rights of others. If claims of infringement are asserted against our customers, those customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur.If we become subject to infringement claims, we will evaluate our position and consider the available alternatives, which may include seeking licenses to use the technology in question or defending our position. These licenses, however, may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are not able to negotiate the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or successfully defend our position, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We also defend our patent and intellectual property portfolio. We initiated litigation in 2014 against Humo Laboratory, LTD. in Japan and against Eo Technics Co., Ltd., in South Korea in May 2014 for infringement of key patents. There is no assurance that this litigation will be successful, and we may incur significant legal fees to prosecute these claims. Tax Audits and Changes in Tax LawWe are periodically under audit by United States and foreign tax authorities and may have exposure to additional tax liabilities as a result. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and the impact of changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws could result in material differences from what is reflected in historical income tax accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an examination, a material effect on our financial results, tax positions or cash flows could occur in the period or periods in which the determination is made.We currently benefit from a tax incentive program in Singapore pursuant to which we pay no Singapore income tax with respect to our manufacturing income. The incentive commenced on July 1, 2006 and will continue through June 30, 2016 assuming we are able to satisfy applicable requirements. The Company has failed to meet certain of the associated requirements in the past, however has obtained a waiver for certain periods. There is no assurance we will be able to satisfy these requirements and failure to meet such requirements may lead to reduction in future or past tax benefits. The Company believes that it is more likely than not the Company will continue to receive the associated tax incentives and there is no indication that past benefits received would be rescinded.Legal ProceedingsFrom time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings, including breach of contract claims and claims that involve possible infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties or by third parties. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of litigation matters, and there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of management’s attention, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in loss of our property rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Provisions Restricting Our AcquisitionOur articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison 16Table of Contentspill,” which would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, the Oregon Control Share Act and the Oregon Business Combination Act limit the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over us. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of our Board of Directors, may deter efforts to obtain control of us and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our shareholders.Risks Related to Financial MattersUnfavorable Currency Exchange Rate FluctuationsCurrency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations and we could experience losses with respect to forward exchange contracts into which we may enter. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to those customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to unfavorable currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some of our foreign sales are denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold and the currency we receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. From time to time, we enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge the value of accounts receivable primarily denominated in euros and other currencies. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Fluctuations in Effective Tax RateAs a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation from one period to the next because the income tax rates for each year are a function of many factors, including: (a) taxable income levels and the effects of a mix of profits (losses) earned by ESI and our subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates; (b) our ability to utilize deferred tax assets; (c) taxes, refunds, interest or penalties resulting from tax audits; (d) the magnitude of various credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income; and (e) changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. In addition, we currently have a valuation allowance against domestic tax assets as a result of historic losses recorded in the United States. Changes in the mix of these items may cause our effective tax rate to fluctuate between periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.Impairment of Intangible AssetsWe held a total of $6.8 million in acquired intangible assets and $7.9 million in goodwill at March 29, 2014. We review our acquired intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment using a quantitative approach at least annually or between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below the carrying value.We performed a review of our acquired intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2014, including a review for impairment based on certain triggering events and no significant impairments of intangible assets were detected. We performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis during the fourth quarter of 2014 and determined that goodwill was not impaired. If at any time management determines that an impairment exists the Company may be required to record the impaired value as part of operating income, which will result in a reduction in earnings and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value in the period such impairment is identified. The assessment of whether goodwill is impaired is sensitive to stock price and the assumed control premium. A significant deterioration in either may trigger impairment.Stock Price VolatilityThe market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. During fiscal 2014, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $12.35 per share and a low of $9.04 per share, and subsequent to the end of the fiscal year and prior to June 1, 2014 has been as low as $6.61. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price, many of which are outside of our control, may include:•variations in operating results from quarter to quarter;•changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations;•changes in the market price per share of our public company customers;•market conditions in the consumer electronics, semiconductor and other industries into which we sell products;17Table of Contents•general economic conditions;•political changes, hostilities or natural disasters;•low trading volume of our common stock;•change in our dividend policy;•the number of analysts covering our common stock; and•the number of firms making a market in our common stock.In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market prices of the securities of high-technology companies like ours. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Reduction or Cessation of DividendsOur Board of Directors first adopted a dividend policy in December 2011. We intend to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on overall levels of current or projected profitability; potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions; funding of research and development; legal risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. Further, the special dividend declared by the Board of Directors in December 2012 should not be considered a recurring event. A reduction or cessation in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.Impairment of InvestmentsOur investment portfolio is primarily comprised of commercial paper, debt securities issued by U.S. governmental agencies and municipal debt securities. These investments are intended to be highly liquid and low risk. If the markets for these securities were to deteriorate for any reason, including as a result of a downgrade in the credit rating of U.S. government securities, the liquidity and value of these investments could be negatively affected, which could result in impairment charges. Any such impairment charges may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.