1A Risk Factors or discussed in this Annual Report also could adversely affect our results, and you should not consider any such list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement, except as required by applicable law. -3- Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Capital City Bank Group, Inc. (“CCBG”) is a financial holding company registered under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act”). CCBG was incorporated under Florida law on December 13, 1982, to acquire five national banks and one state bank that all subsequently became part of CCBG’s bank subsidiary, Capital City Bank (“CCB” or the “Bank”). In this report, the terms “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our” mean CCBG and all subsidiaries included in our consolidated financial statements. We provide traditional deposit and credit services, asset management, trust, mortgage banking, merchant services, bank cards, data processing, and securities brokerage services through 69 full-service banking locations in Florida, Georgia, and Alabama. CCB operates these banking locations. At December 31, 2006, our consolidated total assets were approximately $2.6 billion and shareowners’ equity was approximately $316 million. CCBG’s principal asset is the capital stock of the Bank. CCB accounted for approximately 100% of consolidated assets at December 31, 2006, and approximately 100% of consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition to our banking subsidiary, we have seven indirect subsidiaries, Capital City Trust Company, Capital City Mortgage Company (inactive), Capital City Banc Investments, Inc., Capital City Services Company, First Insurance Agency of Grady County, Inc., Southern Oaks, Inc., and FNB Financial Services, Inc., all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Capital City Bank, and two direct subsidiaries CCBG Capital Trust I and CCBG Capital Trust II, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of CCBG. Dividends and management fees received from the Bank are our only source of income. Dividend payments by the Bank to CCBG depend on the capitalization, earnings and projected growth of the Bank, and are limited by various regulatory restrictions. See the section entitled “Regulatory Considerations” in this Item 1 and Note 15 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We had a total of 1,056 (full-time equivalent) associates at February 28, 2007. Page 21 contains other financial and statistical information about us. We have one reportable segment with the following principal services: Banking Services, Data Processing Services, Trust and Asset Management Services, and Brokerage Services. Banking Services CCB is a Florida chartered full-service bank engaged in the commercial and retail banking business. Significant services offered by the Bank include: § Business Banking - The Bank provides banking services to corporations and other business clients. Credit products are available for a wide variety of general business purposes, including financing for commercial business properties, equipment, inventories and accounts receivable, as well as commercial leasing and letters of credit. Treasury management services and merchant credit card transaction processing services are also offered. § Commercial Real Estate Lending - The Bank provides a wide range of products to meet the financing needs of commercial developers and investors, residential builders and developers, and community development. § Residential Real Estate Lending - The Bank provides products to help meet the home financing needs of consumers, including conventional permanent and construction/permanent (fixed or adjustable rate) financing arrangements, and FHA/VA loan products. The bank offers both fixed-rate and adjustable rate mortgages (“ARM”) loans. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 33% of the Bank’s loan portfolio consisted of ARM loans. Te The Bank offers these products through its existing network of branch offices. Geographical expansion of the delivery of this product line has occurred over the past three years through the opening of mortgage lending offices in Gainesville, Florida (Alachua County), Panacea, Florida (Wakulla County), Steinhatchee, Florida (Taylor County), and Thomasville, Georgia (Thomas County). § Retail Credit - The Bank provides a full range of loan products to meet the needs of consumers, including personal loans, automobile loans, boat/RV loans, home equity loans, and credit card programs. § Institutional Banking - The Bank provides banking services to meet the needs of state and local governments, public schools and colleges, charities, membership and not-for-profit associations including customized checking and savings accounts, cash management systems, tax-exempt loans, lines of credit, and term loans. -4- Table of Contents § Retail Banking - The Bank provides a full range of consumer banking services, including checking accounts, savings programs, automated teller machines (“ATMs”), debit/credit cards, night deposit services, safe deposit facilities, and PC/Internet banking. Clients can use the “Star-Line” system to gain 24-hour access to their deposit and loan account information, and transfer funds between linked accounts. The Bank is a member of the “Star” ATM Network that permits banking clients to access cash at ATMs or point of sale merchants. Data Processing Services Capital City Services Company provides data processing services to financial institutions (including CCB), government agencies and commercial clients located throughout North Florida and South Georgia. As of February 28, 2007, the Services Company is providing computer services to seven correspondent banks, which have relationships with CCB. Trust Services and Asset Management Capital City Trust Company (“CCTC’) is the investment management arm of CCB. The Trust Company provides asset management for individuals through agency, personal trust, IRAs and personal investment management accounts. Administration of pension, profit sharing and 401(k) plans is a significant product line. Associations, endowments and other non-profit entities hire CCTC to manage their investment portfolios. A staff of well-trained professionals serves individuals requiring the services of a trustee, personal representative or a guardian. The market value of trust assets under discretionary management exceeded $753 million as of December 31, 2006, with total assets under administration exceeding $823 million. Brokerage Services We offer access to retail investment products through Capital City Banc Investments, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCB. These products are offered through INVEST Financial Corporation, a member of NASD and SIPC. Non-deposit investment and insurance products are: (1) not FDIC insured; (2) not deposits, obligations, or guaranteed by any bank; and (3) subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal amount invested. Capital City Banc Investments, Inc. offers a full line of retail securities products, including U.S. Government bonds, tax-free municipal bonds, stocks, mutual funds, unit investment trusts, annuities, life insurance and long-term health care. We are not affiliated with INVEST Financial Corporation. Expansion of Business Since 1984, we have completed 15 acquisitions totaling $1.6 billion in deposits within existing and new markets. In addition, since 2003, we opened six new offices - two in Tallahassee and one each in Crawfordville, Palatka (replacement office), Spring Hill and Starke (replacement office) - to improve service and product delivery within these Florida markets. Plans are currently being developed for new office sites in Macon, Georgia, Spring Hill, Florida, Brooksville, Florida, and Gainesville, Florida. Pursuant to our “Project 2010” strategy, we plan to continue our expansion, emphasizing a combination of growth in existing markets and acquisitions. Acquisitions will be focused on a three state area including Florida, Georgia, and Alabama with a particular focus on acquiring banks and banking offices, which are $100 million to $400 million in asset size, located on the outskirts of major metropolitan areas. We will evaluate de novo expansion opportunities in attractive new markets in the event that acquisition opportunities are not feasible. Other expansion opportunities that will be evaluated include asset management, insurance, and mortgage banking. We anticipate that slightly more than half of our future earnings growth will be generated through growth in existing markets and slightly less than half through acquisitions. Recent Acquisitions. On May 20, 2005, we completed our acquisition of First Alachua Banking Corporation (“FABC”), headquartered in Alachua, Florida. FABC’s wholly-owned subsidiary, First National Bank of Alachua (“FNBA”) had $228.3 million in assets, seven offices located in Alachua County -- Gainesville (three), Alachua, High Springs, Jonesville, Newberry -- and an eighth office in Hastings, Florida, which is located in St. Johns County. FABC also had a mortgage lending office in Gainesville and a financial services division. We issued 88.9456 shares of CCBG Common Stock and $2,847.04 in cash for each of the 10,186 shares of FABC, resulting in the issuance of 906,000 shares of CCBG Common Stock and the payment of $29.0 million in cash for a total purchase price of approximately $58.0 million. On October 15, 2004, we completed our acquisition of Farmers and Merchants Bank in Dublin, Georgia, a $395 million asset institution with three offices in Laurens County. We issued 21.35 shares of CCBG Common Stock and $666.50 in cash for each of the 50,000 shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank, resulting in the issuance of 1,067,500 shares of CCBG Common Stock and the payment of $33.3 million in cash for a total purchase price of approximately $66.7 million. On March 19, 2004, our subsidiary, CCB, completed its merger with Quincy State Bank, a former subsidiary of Synovus Financial Corp. Quincy State Bank had $116.6 million in assets with one office in Quincy, Florida and one office in Havana, Florida. Both markets adjoin Leon County, home to our Tallahassee headquarters. In addition, we acquired $208 million in trust and other fiduciary assets of Synovus Trust Company, an affiliate of Quincy State Bank. The purchase price was $28.1 million in cash. -5- Table of Contents Competition The banking business is rapidly changing. We operate in a highly competitive environment, especially with respect to services and pricing. The on-going consolidation of the banking industry has altered and continues to significantly alter the competitive environment within the Florida, Georgia, and Alabama markets. We believe this consolidation further enhances our competitive position and opportunities in many of our markets. Our primary market area is 20 counties in Florida, five counties in Georgia and one county in Alabama. In these markets, the Bank competes against a wide range of banking and nonbanking institutions including savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market funds, mutual fund advisory companies, mortgage banking companies, investment banking companies, finance companies and other types of financial institutions. All of Florida’s major banking concerns have a presence in Leon County. CCB’s Leon County deposits totaled $694.1 million, or 33.3%, of our consolidated deposits at December 31, 2006. The following table depicts our market share percentage within each respective county, based on total commercial bank deposits within the county. Market Share as of June 30,(1) 2006 2005 2004 Florida Alachua County(2) 5.6 % 6.3 % -- Bradford County 44.6 % 42.6 % 37.1 % Citrus County 3.3 % 3.5 % 3.6 % Clay County 2.0 % 2.2 % 2.4 % Dixie County 20.8 % 17.3 % 16.9 % Gadsden County 64.9 % 68.0 % 77.7 % Gilchrist County 47.1 % 49.5 % 49.4 % Gulf County 14.3 % 19.8 % 22.1 % Hernando County 1.5 % 1.4 % 1.3 % Jefferson County 24.6 % 24.4 % 24.0 % Leon County 18.0 % 17.5 % 17.2 % Levy County 34.4 % 33.8 % 34.1 % Madison County 14.9 % 15.1 % 17.8 % Pasco County 0.2 % 0.3 % 0.4 % St. Johns County(2) 1.5 % 2.0 -- Putnam County 12.3 % 12.3 % 12.5 % Suwannee County 11.8 % 7.5 % 7.7 % Taylor County 28.6 % 27.9 % 27.4 % Wakulla County(3) 2.9 % -- -- Washington County 17.4 % 20.3 % 20.0 % Georgia(4) Bibb County 2.9 % 2.8 % 2.8 % Burke County 9.2 % 9.3 % 10.3 % Grady County 20.0 % 19.7 % 23.6 % Laurens County(5) 23.8 % 33.1 % 41.8 % Troup County 8.2 % 7.5 % 8.2 % Alabama Chambers County 4.7 % 3.9 % 4.4 % (1) Obtained from the June 30, 2006 FDIC/OTS Summary of Deposits Report. (2) CCB entered market in May 2005. (3) CCB entered market in December 2005. (4) Does not include Thomas County where Capital City Bank maintains a residential mortgage lending office only. (5) CCB entered market in October 2004. -6- Table of Contents The following table sets forth the number of commercial banks and offices, including our offices and our competitors' offices, within each of the respective counties. County Number of Commercial Banks Number of Commercial Bank Offices Florida Alachua 14 64 Bradford 3 3 Citrus 15 46 Clay 11 26 Dixie 3 4 Gadsden 4 6 Gilchrist 3 5 Gulf 4 6 Hernando 12 36 Jefferson 2 2 Leon 13 78 Levy 3 13 Madison 6 6 Pasco 18 96 Putnam 5 11 St. Johns 19 60 Suwannee 4 5 Taylor 3 4 Wakulla 4 9 Washington 4 4 Georgia Bibb 10 52 Burke 5 10 Grady 5 8 Laurens 9 19 Troup 8 17 Alabama Chambers 4 8 Data obtained from the June 30, 2006 FDIC/OTS Summary of Deposits Report. -7- Table of Contents REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS We must comply with state and federal banking laws and regulations that control virtually all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations generally aim to protect our depositors, not our shareowners or our creditors. Any changes in applicable laws or regulations may materially affect our business and prospects. Such legislative or regulatory changes may also affect our operations. The following description summarizes some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject. References to applicable statutes and regulations are brief summaries, do not purport to be complete, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such statutes and regulations. The Company CCBG is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) as a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and is registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHCA”). As a result, we are subject to supervisory regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the BHCA, and other federal laws subject financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Permitted Activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, enacted on November 12, 1999, amended the BHCA by (i) allowing bank holding companies that qualify as “financial holding companies” to engage in a broad range of financial and related activities; (ii) allowing insurers and other financial service companies to acquire banks; (iii) removing restrictions that applied to bank holding company ownership of securities firms and mutual fund advisory companies; and (iv) establishing the overall regulatory scheme applicable to bank holding companies that also engage in insurance and securities operations. The general effect of the law was to establish a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities firms, and other financial service providers. Activities that are financial in nature are broadly defined to include not only banking, insurance, and securities activities, but also merchant banking and additional activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines to be financial in nature, incidental to such financial activities, or complementary activities that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. In contrast to financial holding companies, bank holding companies are limited to managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities that the Federal Reserve determines to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Except for the activities relating to financial holding companies permissible under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, these restrictions will apply to us. In determining whether a particular activity is permissible, the Federal Reserve must consider whether the performance of such an activity reasonably can be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects. Possible benefits include greater convenience, increased competition, and gains in efficiency. Possible adverse effects include undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, and unsound banking practices. Despite prior approval, the Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable cause to believe that a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary of that bank holding company may result from such an activity. Changes in Control. Subject to certain exceptions, the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with regulations thereunder, require Federal Reserve approval (or, depending on the circumstances, no notice of disapproval) prior to any person or company acquiring “control” of a bank or bank holding company. A conclusive presumption of control exists if an individual or company acquires the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of an insured depository institution or to vote 25% or more of any class of voting securities of any insured depository institution. A rebuttable presumption of control exists if a person or company acquires 10% or more but less than 25% of any class of voting securities of an insured depository institution and either the institution has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), or no other person will own a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the acquisition. As a bank holding company, we are required to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before (i) acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of a bank or bank holding company, (ii) acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any bank or bank holding company (unless we own a majority of such bank’s voting shares), or (iii) merging or consolidating with any other bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution’s record of addressing the credit needs of the communities it serves, including the needs of low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank, under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”). -8- Table of Contents Under Florida law, a person or entity proposing to directly or indirectly acquire control of a Florida bank must first obtain permission from the Florida Department of Financial Services (the “Florida Department”). Florida statutes define “control” as either (a) indirectly or directly owning, controlling or having power to vote 25% or more of the voting securities of a bank; (b) controlling the election of a majority of directors of a bank; (c) owning, controlling, or having power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities as well as directly or indirectly exercising a controlling influence over management or policies of a bank; or (d) as determined by the Florida Department. These requirements will affect us because the Bank is chartered under Florida law and changes in control of us are indirect changes in control of the Bank. Tying. Financial holding companies and their affiliates are prohibited from tying the provision of certain services, such as extending credit, to other services offered by the holding company or its affiliates. Capital; Dividends; Source of Strength. The Federal Reserve imposes certain capital requirements on us under the BHCA, including a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum ratio of “qualifying” capital to risk-weighted assets. These requirements are described below under “Capital Regulations.” Subject to its capital requirements and certain other restrictions, we are able to borrow money to make a capital contribution to the Bank, and such loans may be repaid from dividends paid from the Bank to us. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, however, will be subject to regulatory restrictions that are described below under “Dividends.” We are also able to raise capital for contributions to the Bank by issuing securities without having to receive regulatory approval, subject to compliance with federal and state securities laws. In accordance with Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial strength to the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank in circumstances in which we might not otherwise do so. In furtherance of this policy, the Federal Reserve may require a financial holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of a nonbank subsidiary (other than a nonbank subsidiary of a bank) upon the Federal Reserve’s determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any subsidiary depository institution of the financial holding company. Further, federal bank regulatory authorities have additional discretion to require a financial holding company to divest itself of any bank or nonbank subsidiary if the agency determines that divestiture may aid the depository institution’s financial condition. Capital City Bank CCB is a banking institution that is chartered by and headquartered in the State of Florida, and it is subject to supervision and regulation by the Florida Department. The Florida Department supervises and regulates all areas of the Bank’s operations including, without limitation, the making of loans, the issuance of securities, the conduct of the Bank’s corporate affairs, the satisfaction of capital adequacy requirements, the payment of dividends, and the establishment or closing of branches. The Bank is also a member bank of the Federal Reserve System, which makes the Bank’s operations subject to broad federal regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve. In addition, the Bank’s deposit accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the FDIC has certain enforcement powers over the Bank. As a state chartered banking institution in the State of Florida, the Bank is empowered by statute, subject to the limitations contained in those statutes, to take and pay interest on savings and time deposits, to accept demand deposits, to make loans on residential and other real estate, to make consumer and commercial loans, to invest, with certain limitations, in equity securities and in debt obligations of banks and corporations and to provide various other banking services on behalf of the Bank’s clients. Various consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of the Bank, including state usury laws, laws relating to fiduciaries, consumer credit and equal credit opportunity laws, and fair credit reporting. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) prohibits insured state chartered institutions from conducting activities as principal that are not permitted for national banks. A bank, however, may engage in an otherwise prohibited activity if it meets its minimum capital requirements and the FDIC determines that the activity does not present a significant risk to the deposit insurance funds. Reserves. The Federal Reserve requires all depository institutions to maintain reserves against some transaction accounts (primarily NOW and Super NOW checking accounts). The balances maintained to meet the reserve requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve may be used to satisfy liquidity requirements. An institution may borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank “discount window” as a secondary source of funds, provided that the institution meets the Federal Reserve Bank’s credit standards. Dividends. The Bank is subject to legal limitations on the frequency and amount of dividends that can be paid to us. The Federal Reserve may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends if such payments would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. These regulations and restrictions may limit our ability to obtain funds from the Bank for our cash needs, including funds for acquisitions and the payment of dividends, interest, and operating expenses. -9- Table of Contents In addition, Florida law also places certain restrictions on the declaration of dividends from state chartered banks to their holding companies. Pursuant to Section 658.37 of the Florida Banking Code, the board of directors of state chartered banks, after charging off bad debts, depreciation and other worthless assets, if any, and making provisions for reasonably anticipated future losses on loans and other assets, may quarterly, semi-annually or annually declare a dividend of up to the aggregate net profits of that period combined with the bank’s retained net profits for the preceding two years and, with the approval of the Florida Department, declare a dividend from retained net profits which accrued prior to the preceding two years. Before declaring such dividends, 20% of the net profits for the preceding period as is covered by the dividend must be transferred to the surplus fund of the bank until this fund becomes equal to the amount of the bank’s common stock then issued and outstanding. A state chartered bank may not declare any dividend if (i) its net income from the current year combined with the retained net income for the preceding two years is a loss or (ii) the payment of such dividend would cause the capital account of the bank to fall below the minimum amount required by law, regulation, order or any written agreement with the Florida Department or a federal regulatory agency. Insurance of Accounts and Other Assessments. The FDIC merged the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund to form the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) on March 31, 2006. The deposit accounts of the Bank are currently insured by the DIF generally up to a maximum of $100,000 per separately insured depositor, except for retirement accounts, which are insured up to $250,000. The Bank pays its deposit insurance assessments to the DIF. Effective January 1, 2007, the FDIC established a risk-based assessment system for determining the deposit insurance assessments to be paid by insured depository institutions. Under the assessment system, the FDIC assigns an institution to one of four risk categories, with the first category having two sub-categories based on the institution’s most recent supervisory and capital evaluations, designed to measure risk. Assessment rates currently range from 0.05% of deposits for an institution in the highest sub-category of the highest category to 0.43% of deposits for an institution in the lowest category. The FDIC is authorized to raise the assessment rates as necessary to maintain the minimum required 1.25% reserve ratio of premiums held to deposits insured. The FDIC allows the use of credits for assessments previously paid. We believe that we have credits that will offset certain of these assessments during 2007. In addition, all FDIC insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately 0.0122% of insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2017 through 2019. Transactions With Affiliates. Pursuant to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (“FRA”) and Regulation W, the authority of the Bank to engage in transactions with related parties or “affiliates” or to make loans to insiders is limited. Loan transactions with an “affiliate” generally must be collateralized and certain transactions between the Bank and its “affiliates”, including the sale of assets, the payment of money or the provision of services, must be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those prevailing for comparable nonaffiliated transactions. In addition, the Bank generally may not purchase securities issued or underwritten by affiliates. Loans to executive officers, directors or to any person who directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons, owns, controls or has the power to vote more than 10% of any class of voting securities of a bank (“10% Shareholders”), or to any political or campaign committee the funds or services of which will benefit such executive officers, directors, or 10% Shareholders or which is controlled by such executive officers, directors or 10% Shareholders, are subject to Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the FRA and the regulations promulgated thereunder (Regulation O) and Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act relating to the prohibition on personal loans to executives which exempts financial institutions in compliance with the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the FRA. Among other things, these loans must be made on terms substantially the same as those prevailing on transactions made to unaffiliated individuals and certain extensions of credit to such persons must first be approved in advance by a disinterested majority of the entire board of directors. Section 22(h) of the FRA prohibits loans to any such individuals where the aggregate amount exceeds an amount equal to 15% of an institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus plus an additional 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus in the case of loans that are fully secured by readily marketable collateral, or when the aggregate amount on all such extensions of credit outstanding to all such persons would exceed the bank’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Section 22(g) identifies limited circumstances in which the Bank is permitted to extend credit to executive officers. Community Reinvestment Act. The CRA and the regulations issued thereunder are intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service area, including low and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operations of the banks. These regulations provide for regulatory assessment of a bank’s record in meeting the needs of its service area. Federal banking agencies are required to make public a rating of a bank’s performance under the CRA. The Federal Reserve considers a bank’s CRA when the bank submits an application to establish branches, merge, or acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of another bank. In the case of a financial holding company, the CRA performance record of all banks involved in the merger or acquisition are reviewed in connection with the filing of an application to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank or to merge with any other financial holding company. An unsatisfactory record can substantially delay or block the transaction. -10- Table of Contents Capital Regulations. The Federal Reserve has adopted risk-based, capital adequacy guidelines for financial holding companies and their subsidiary state-chartered banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System. The risk-based capital guidelines are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and financial holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets and to achieve greater consistency in evaluating the capital adequacy of major banks throughout the world. Under these guidelines assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories each with designated weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items. The current guidelines require all financial holding companies and federally regulated banks to maintain a minimum risk-based total capital ratio equal to 8%, of which at least 4% must be Tier I Capital. Tier I Capital, which includes common stockholders’ equity, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred securities, less certain goodwill items and other intangible assets, is required to equal at least 4% of risk-weighted assets. The remainder (“Tier II Capital”) may consist of (i) an allowance for loan losses of up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets, (ii) excess of qualifying perpetual preferred stock, (iii) hybrid capital instruments, (iv) perpetual debt, (v) mandatory convertible securities, and (vi) subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock up to 50% of Tier I Capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier I and Tier II Capital less reciprocal holdings of other banking organizations’ capital instruments, investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and any other deductions as determined by the appropriate regulator (determined on a case by case basis or as a matter of policy after formal rule making). In computing total risk-weighted assets, bank and financial holding company assets are given risk-weights of 0%, 20%, 50% and 100%. In addition, certain off-balance sheet items are given similar credit conversion factors to convert them to asset equivalent amounts to which an appropriate risk-weight will apply. Most loans will be assigned to the 100% risk category, except for performing first mortgage loans fully secured by 1- to 4-family and certain multi-family residential property, which carry a 50% risk rating. Most investment securities (including, primarily, general obligation claims on states or other political subdivisions of the United States) will be assigned to the 20% category, except for municipal or state revenue bonds, which have a 50% risk-weight, and direct obligations of the U.S. Treasury or obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government, which have a 0% risk-weight. In covering off-balance sheet items, direct credit substitutes, including general guarantees and standby letters of credit backing financial obligations, are given a 100% conversion factor. Transaction-related contingencies such as bid bonds, standby letters of credit backing non-financial obligations, and undrawn commitments (including commercial credit lines with an initial maturity of more than one year) have a 50% conversion factor. Short-term commercial letters of credit are converted at 20% and certain short-term unconditionally cancelable commitments have a 0% factor. The federal bank regulatory authorities have also adopted regulations that supplement the risk-based guidelines. These regulations generally require banks and financial holding companies to maintain a minimum level of Tier I Capital to total assets less goodwill of 4% (the “leverage ratio”). The Federal Reserve permits a bank to maintain a minimum 3% leverage ratio if the bank achieves a 1 rating under the CAMELS rating system in its most recent examination, as long as the bank is not experiencing or anticipating significant growth. The CAMELS rating is a non-public system used by bank regulators to rate the strength and weaknesses of financial institutions. The CAMELS rating is comprised of six categories: capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, and sensitivity to market risk. Banking organizations experiencing or anticipating significant growth, as well as those organizations which do not satisfy the criteria described above, will be required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio ranging generally from 4% to 5%. The bank regulators also continue to consider a “tangible Tier I leverage ratio” in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier I leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier I Capital, less deductions for intangibles otherwise includable in Tier I Capital, to total tangible assets. Federal law and regulations establish a capital-based regulatory scheme designed to promote early intervention for troubled banks and require the FDIC to choose the least expensive resolution of bank failures. The capital-based regulatory framework contains five categories of compliance with regulatory capital requirements, including “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized,” and “critically undercapitalized.” To qualify as a “well-capitalized” institution, a bank must have a leverage ratio of no less than 5%, a Tier I risk-based ratio of no less than 6%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of no less than 10%, and the bank must not be under any order or directive from the appropriate regulatory agency to meet and maintain a specific capital level. Generally, a financial institution must be “well capitalized” before the Federal Reserve will approve an application by a financial holding company to acquire or merge with a bank or bank holding company. -11- Table of Contents Under the regulations, the applicable agency can treat an institution as if it were in the next lower category if the agency determines (after notice and an opportunity for hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. The degree of regulatory scrutiny of a financial institution will increase, and the permissible activities of the institution will decrease, as it moves downward through the capital categories. Institutions that fall into one of the three undercapitalized categories may be required to (i) submit a capital restoration plan; (ii) raise additional capital; (iii) restrict their growth, deposit interest rates, and other activities; (iv) improve their management; (v) eliminate management fees; or (vi) divest themselves of all or a part of their operations. Financial holding companies controlling financial institutions can be called upon to boost the institutions’ capital and to partially guarantee the institutions’ performance under their capital restoration plans. It should be noted that the minimum ratios referred to above are merely guidelines and the bank regulators possess the discretionary authority to require higher ratios. We currently exceed the requirements contained in the applicable regulations, policies and directives pertaining to capital adequacy, and are unaware of any material violation or alleged violation of these regulations, policies or directives. Interstate Banking and Branching. The BHCA was amended by the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Interstate Banking Act”). The Interstate Banking Act provides that adequately capitalized and managed financial holding companies are permitted to acquire banks in any state. State laws prohibiting interstate banking or discriminating against out-of-state banks are preempted. States are not permitted to enact laws opting out of this provision; however, states are allowed to adopt a minimum age restriction requiring that target banks located within the state be in existence for a period of years, up to a maximum of five years, before such bank may be subject to the Interstate Banking Act. The Interstate Banking Act establishes deposit caps which prohibit acquisitions that result in the acquiring company controlling 30% or more of the deposits of insured banks and thrift institutions held in the state in which the target maintains a branch or 10% or more of the deposits nationwide. States have the authority to waive the 30% deposit cap. State-level deposit caps are not preempted as long as they do not discriminate against out-of-state companies, and the federal deposit caps apply only to initial entry acquisitions. The Interstate Banking Act also provides that adequately capitalized and managed banks are able to engage in interstate branching by merging with banks in different states. Unlike the interstate banking provision discussed above, states were permitted to opt out of the application of the interstate merger provision by enacting specific legislation. Florida responded to the enactment of the Interstate Banking Act by enacting the Florida Interstate Branching Act (the “Florida Branching Act”). The purpose of the Florida Branching Act was to permit interstate branching through merger transactions under the Interstate Banking Act. Under the Florida Branching Act, with the prior approval of the Florida Department, a Florida bank may establish, maintain and operate one or more branches in a state other than the State of Florida pursuant to a merger transaction in which the Florida bank is the resulting bank. In addition, the Florida Branching Act provides that one or more Florida banks may enter into a merger transaction with one or more out-of-state banks, and an out-of-state bank resulting from such transaction may maintain and operate the branches of the Florida bank that participated in such merger. An out-of-state bank, however, is not permitted to acquire a Florida bank in a merger transaction unless the Florida bank has been in existence and continuously operated for more than three years. Anti-money Laundering. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “USA PATRIOT ACT”) was enacted in response to the terrorist attacks occurring on September 11, 2001. The USA PATRIOT ACT is intended to strengthen the U.S. law enforcement and intelligence communities’ ability to work together to combat terrorism. Title III of the USA PATRIOT ACT, the International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act of 2001, amended the Bank Secrecy Act and adopted additional provisions that increased the obligations of financial institutions, including the Bank, to identify their clients, watch for and report upon suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by federal banking and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions. In addition, the collected client identification information must be verified within a reasonable time after a new account is opened through documentary or non-documentary methods. All new clients must be screened against any Section 326 government lists of known or suspected terrorists within a reasonable time after opening an account. Securities Activities. The Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 (“Regulatory Relief Act”) was signed into law on October 13, 2006, which among other things, requires the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the other federal banking regulators, to jointly promulgate regulations to implement the bank broker-dealer exceptions enacted in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. On December 13, 2006, the SEC voted to propose Regulation R, which would implement the bank broker-dealer exceptions. Regulation R is expected to impact the way Bank associates who are not registered with the SEC may be compensated for referrals to a third-party broker-dealer for which the Bank has entered into a networking arrangement. In addition, Regulation R will broaden the ability of the Bank to effect securities transactions in a trustee or fiduciary capacity without registering as a broker, permit banks to effect certain sweep account transactions, and accept orders for securities transactions from employee plan accounts, individual retirement plan accounts, and other similar accounts. Banks would be expected to comply on the first day of their fiscal year beginning on or after June 30, 2008. -12- Table of Contents Privacy. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, federal banking regulators adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. Consumer Laws and Regulations. The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act, or “Check 21” as it is commonly known, became effective in October 2004. Check 21 facilitates check collection through a new negotiable instrument called a “substitute check,” which permits, but does not require, banks to replace original checks with substitute checks or information from the original check and process check information electronically. Banks that do use substitute checks must comply with certain notice and recredit rights. Check 21 cuts the time and cost involved in physically transporting paper items to reduce float (i.e., the time between the deposit of a check in a bank and payment) especially in cases in which items were not already being delivered same-day or overnight. The Bank is also subject to other federal and state consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth below is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with clients when taking deposits or making loans to such clients. The Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of its ongoing client relations. Future Legislative Developments Various legislative acts are from time to time introduced in Congress and the Florida legislature. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the environment in which our banking subsidiary and we operate in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that potential legislation, if enacted, or implementing regulations with respect thereto, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations or that of our banking subsidiary. Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies The commercial banking business in which the Bank engages is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowing, availability of borrowing at the “discount window,” open market operations, the imposition of changes in reserve requirements against member banks’ deposits and assets of foreign branches and the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates are some of the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve. These monetary policies are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distributions of bank loans, investments and deposits, and this use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks and are expected to do so in the future. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve are influenced by various factors, including inflation, unemployment, short-term and long-term changes in the international trade balance and in the fiscal policies of the U.S. Government. Future monetary policies and the effect of such policies on the future business and earnings of the Bank cannot be predicted. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes at the federal level and subject to state taxation based on the laws of each state in which we operate. We file a consolidated federal tax return with a fiscal year ending on December 31. We have filed tax returns for each state jurisdiction affected in 2005 and will do the same for 2006. Website Access to Company's Reports Our internet website is www.ccbg.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d), and reports filed pursuant to Section 16, 13(d), and 13(g) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. -13- Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, including our operating results and financial condition, could be harmed by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks you should also refer to the other information contained in our filings with the SEC, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the last five years, we have experienced significant growth, and a key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. The goal of our primary business strategy known as Project 2010 is to increase our annual earnings to $50 million by 2010. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth, maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire into our organization. Our earnings growth relies, at least in part, on strategic acquisitions. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or branches. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. In addition, we may fail to realize the growth opportunities and cost savings we anticipate to be derived from our acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions causes us to take on additional risks such as the risks of unknown or contingent liabilities, exposure to potential asset quality issues from acquired institutions, and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing business and operations. Finally, it is possible that during the integration process of our acquisitions, we could lose key associates or the ability to maintain relationships with clients. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new offices or through strategic acquisitions, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new offices, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or for future growth. Such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the Bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and our borrowings. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thus reducing our net interest income because we may need to pay the higher rates on our deposits and borrowings while being limited on the repricing of these loans due to the interest rate caps. -14- Table of Contents An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our clients will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. This will result in credit losses that are inherent in the lending business. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: § the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; § previous loan loss experience; § specific loans that have loss potential; § delinquency trends; § estimated fair market value of the collateral; § current economic conditions; and § geographic and industry loan concentrations. If our estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio is incorrect, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected because our allowance may not be adequate. Additionally, we may experience losses in our loan portfolios or encounter adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, which could also have an adverse affect on our earnings. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial real estate loans, commercial loans, construction loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial, construction, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by single-family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as single-family residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate, commercial and construction/development loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers and are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: § Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they are generally not fully amortizing over a loan period, but rather have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. § Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, illiquid, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. § Construction Loans. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property’s value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. § Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. Due to the lack of diversified industry within the markets served by the Bank and the relatively close proximity of our geographic markets, we have both geographic concentrations as well as concentrations in the types of loans funded. Specifically, due to the nature of our markets, a significant portion of the portfolio has historically been secured with real estate. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 32.2% and 35.5% of our $2.0 billion loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate and residential real estate, respectively. As of this same date, approximately 9.0% was secured by property under construction. A major change in the real estate market, such as a deterioration in the value of the collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our clients’ ability to repay their loans. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, and consequently, we would sustain loan losses. -15- Table of Contents An economic downturn in Florida and Georgia could hinder our ability to operate profitably and have an adverse impact on our operations. Our interest-earning assets are heavily concentrated in mortgage loans secured by properties located in Florida and Georgia. As of December 31, 2006, substantially all of our loans secured by real estate are secured by properties located in Florida and Georgia. The concentration of our loans in these areas subjects us to risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in those areas could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect us than if our lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. We may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans that would have an adverse impact on our operations. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default, is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: § general or local economic conditions; § neighborhood values; § interest rates; § real estate tax rates; § operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; § supply of and demand for rental units or properties; § ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; § zoning laws; § governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and § acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. Confidential client information transmitted through our online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose us to litigation and adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits. We provide our clients the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of banking online. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits. -16- Table of Contents We must comply with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. Since September 11, 2001, banking regulators have intensified their focus on anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements, particularly the anti-money laundering provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place will permit us to fully comply with these laws. Furthermore, financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future may or may not have had adequate policies, procedures and systems to fully comply with these laws. Whether our own policies, procedures and systems are deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including electronic banking, item processing, data processing, correspondent banking, merchant services, and asset management. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company or business interruption due to system failures or other events. We continually assess and monitor operational risk in our business lines and provide for disaster and business recovery planning including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse affect on our reputation. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from the Bank. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Florida Department of Financial Services, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”), the Bank must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareowners. The Bank’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results. Please refer to the Section entitled “Business - Regulatory Considerations” of this Report. -17- Table of Contents Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Limited trading activity for shares of our common stock may contribute to price volatility. While our common stock is listed and traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, there has been limited trading activity in our common stock. The average daily trading volume of our common stock over the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2006 was approximately 20,449 shares. Due to the limited trading activity of our common stock, relativity small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Our insiders have substantial control over matters requiring shareowner approval, including changes of control. Our shareowners who own more than 5% of our common stock, directors, and executive officers, beneficially owned approximately 46.4% of the outstanding shares of our stock as of December 31, 2006. Accordingly, these principal shareowners, directors, and executive officers, if acting together, may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareowners, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareowners of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and certain laws and regulations may prevent or delay transactions you might favor, including a sale or merger of CCBG. CCBG is registered with the Federal Reserve as a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and is registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company under the BHCA. As a result, we are subject to supervisory regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the BHCA, and other federal laws subject financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain laws and regulations and various other factors may make it more difficult and expensive for companies or persons to acquire control of us without the consent of our Board of Directors. It is possible, however, that you would want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential buyer could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our common stock. For example, our Articles of Incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareowner action. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage a company from attempting to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Additionally, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws divide our Board of Directors into three classes, as nearly equal in size as possible, with staggered three-year terms. One class is elected each year. The classification of our Board of Directors could make it more difficult for a company to acquire control of us. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act and our Articles of Incorporation that relate to business combinations with interested shareowners. Other provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: § Supermajority voting requirements to remove a director from office; § Provisions regarding the timing and content of shareowner proposals and nominations; § Supermajority voting requirements to amend Articles of Incorporation unless approval is received by a majority of “disinterested directors”; § Absence of cumulative voting; and § Inability for shareowners to take action by written consent. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -18- Table of Contents Item 