Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, including our operating results and financial condition, could be harmed by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in our filings with the SEC, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business The continuation of current market conditions could adversely impact our business. Over the past 12 months, a combination of rising interest rates and softening real estate prices throughout the United States, but particularly Florida, culminated in an industry-wide increase in borrowers unable to make their mortgage payments and increased foreclosure rates. Lenders in certain sections of the housing and mortgage markets were forced to close or limit their operations. In response, financial institutions have tightened their underwriting standards, limiting the availability of sources of credit and liquidity. These conditions have already impacted the demand for our products by clients and by secondary market participants. If these negative market conditions become more widespread or continue for a prolonged period our earnings and capital could be negatively impacted. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our clients will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. This will result in credit losses that are inherent in the lending business. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: § the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; § previous loan loss experience; § specific loans that have loss potential; § delinquency trends; § estimated fair market value of the collateral; § current economic conditions; and § geographic and industry loan concentrations. If our estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio is incorrect, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected because our allowance may not be adequate. Additionally, we may experience losses in our loan portfolios or encounter adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, which could also have an adverse affect on our earnings. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. Due to the lack of diversified industry within the markets served by the Bank and the relatively close proximity of our geographic markets, we have both geographic concentrations as well as concentrations in the types of loans funded. Specifically, due to the nature of our markets, a significant portion of the portfolio has historically been secured with real estate. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 33.1% and 35.5% of our $1.9 billion loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate and residential real estate, respectively. As of this same date, approximately 7.4% was secured by property under construction. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our clients’ ability to repay their loans. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, we may be unable to recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, and consequently, we would sustain loan losses. -14- Table of Contents Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial real estate loans, commercial loans, construction loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial, construction, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by single-family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as single-family residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate, commercial and construction/development loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers and are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: § Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they are generally not fully amortizing over a loan period, but rather have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. § Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, be illiquid, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. § Construction Loans. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property’s value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. § Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. If our nonperforming loans continue to increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2007, our non-performing loans (which consist of non-accrual loans) totaled $25.1 million, or 1.31% of the total loan portfolio, which is an increase of $17.1 million, or 212% over non-performing loans at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2007, our nonperforming assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were $28.2 million, or 1.08% of total assets. In addition, the Bank had approximately $28.2 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent as of December 31, 2007. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. In addition, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability depends largely on the Bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and our borrowings. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thus reducing our net interest income because we may need to pay the higher rates on our deposits and borrowings while being limited on the re-pricing of these loans due to the interest rate caps. -15- Table of Contents An economic downturn in Florida and Georgia could hinder our ability to operate profitably and have an adverse impact on our operations. Our interest-earning assets are heavily concentrated in mortgage loans secured by properties located in Florida and Georgia. As of December 31, 2007, substantially all of our loans secured by real estate are secured by properties located in Florida and Georgia. The concentration of our loans in these areas subjects us to risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in those areas could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect us than if our lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us in that state. We may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans that would have an adverse impact on our operations. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: § general or local economic conditions; § neighborhood values; § interest rates; § real estate tax rates; § operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; § supply of and demand for rental units or properties; § ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; § zoning laws; § governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and § acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the last five years, we have experienced significant growth, and a key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth, maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire into our organization. Our earnings growth relies, at least in part, on strategic acquisitions. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or branches. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. In addition, we may fail to realize the growth opportunities and cost savings we anticipate to be derived from our acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions causes us to take on additional risks such as the risks of unknown or contingent liabilities, exposure to potential asset quality issues from acquired institutions, and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing business and operations. Finally, it is possible that during the integration process of our acquisitions, we could lose key associates or the ability to maintain relationships with clients. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new offices or through strategic acquisitions, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new offices, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. -16- Table of Contents We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or for future growth. Such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Confidential client information transmitted through our online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose us to litigation and adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits. We provide our clients the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of banking online. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits. We must comply with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. Since September 11, 2001, banking regulators have intensified their focus on anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements, particularly the anti-money laundering provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place will permit us to fully comply with these laws. Furthermore, financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future may or may not have had adequate policies, procedures and systems to fully comply with these laws. Whether our own policies, procedures and systems are deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to operational risk because of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to operational risk because of providing various fee-based services including electronic banking, item processing, data processing, correspondent banking, merchant services, and asset management. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company or business interruption due to system failures or other events. We continually assess and monitor operational risk in our business lines and provide for disaster and business recovery planning including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise because of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements that could have an adverse affect on our reputation. -17- Table of Contents Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from the Bank. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank, the Bank must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the Federal Home Loan Bank. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareowners. The Bank’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results. Please refer to the Section entitled “Business – Regulatory Considerations” of this Report. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Limited trading activity for shares of our common stock may contribute to price volatility. While our common stock is listed and traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, there has been limited trading activity in our common stock. The average daily trading volume of our common stock over the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2007 was approximately 39,385 shares. Due to the limited trading activity of our common stock, relativity small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Our insiders have substantial control over matters requiring shareowner approval, including changes of control. Our insiders who own more than 5% of our common stock, directors, and executive officers, beneficially owned approximately 42.97% of the outstanding shares of our stock as of February 29, 2008. Accordingly, these principal shareowners, directors, and executive officers, if acting together, may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareowners, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareowners of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and certain laws and regulations may prevent or delay transactions you might favor, including a sale or merger of CCBG. CCBG is registered with the Federal Reserve as a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and is a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. As a result, we are subject to supervisory regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Bank Holding Company Act, and other federal laws subject financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain laws and regulations and various other factors may make it more difficult and expensive for companies or persons to acquire control of us without the consent of our Board of Directors. It is possible, however, that you would want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential buyer could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our common stock. -18- Table of Contents For example, our Articles of Incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareowner action. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage a company from attempting to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Additionally, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws divide our Board of Directors into three classes, as nearly equal in size as possible, with staggered three-year terms. One class is elected each year. The classification of our Board of Directors could make it more difficult for a company to acquire control of us. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act and our Articles of Incorporation that relate to business combinations with interested shareowners. Other provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: § Supermajority voting requirements to remove a director from office; § Provisions regarding the timing and content of shareowner proposals and nominations; § Supermajority voting requirements to amend Articles of Incorporation unless approval is received by a majority of “disinterested directors”; § Absence of cumulative voting; and § Inability for shareowners to take action by written consent. -19- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 