Item 1A Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, including our operating results and financial condition, could be harmed by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in our filings with the SEC, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. We also expect to face increased regulation and government oversight as a result of these downward trends. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult economic conditions on us, our clients and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies, and client bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) authorizes the United States Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In 2009, with the change in presidential administrations, additional changes have been announced, such as the creation of a Public-Private Investment Fund to purchase “toxic assets”, which are primarily mortgage-backed securities and nonperforming mortgage loans, from financial institutions. Further, a new capital injection plan has been unveiled accompanied with significantly more restrictions on the payment of executive compensation and dividends, and a prohibition on acquisitions. The purpose of all of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. -15- Table of Contents Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill could negatively impact our earnings and capital. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Given the current economic environment and conditions in the financial markets, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to our normal annual assessment if we experience disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. These non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods, and could also significantly impact certain financial ratios and limit our ability to obtain financing or raise capital in the future. A goodwill impairment charge does not adversely affect the calculation of our risk based and tangible capital ratios. As of December 31, 2008, we had $84.8 million in goodwill, which represented approximately 3.41% of our total assets. State law may limit our ability to declare and pay dividends. Under applicable statutes and regulations, the Bank’s board of directors, after charging off bad debts, depreciation and other worthless assets, if any, and making provisions for reasonably anticipated future losses on loans and other assets, may declare dividends of up to the aggregate net profits of that period combined with the Bank’s retained net profits for the preceding two years and, with the approval of the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, declare a dividend from retained net profits which accrued prior to the preceding two years. If the Bank does not earn an amount approximately equal to CCBG’s anticipated 2009 dividend, CCBG may be unable to declare and pay a dividend to its shareowners. See section entitled “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Dividends” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our clients will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. This will result in credit losses that are inherent in the lending business. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: · the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; · previous loan loss experience; · specific loans that have loss potential; · delinquency trends; · estimated fair market value of the collateral; · current economic conditions; and · geographic and industry loan concentrations. If our estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio is incorrect, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected because our allowance may not be adequate. Additionally, we may experience losses in our loan portfolios or encounter adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, which could also have an adverse affect on our earnings. -16- Table of Contents Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. Due to the lack of diversified industry within the markets served by the Bank and the relatively close proximity of our geographic markets, we have both geographic concentrations as well as concentrations in the types of loans funded. Specifically, due to the nature of our markets, a significant portion of the portfolio has historically been secured with real estate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 33.6% and 35.9% of our $1.958 billion loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate and residential real estate, respectively. As of this same date, approximately 7.3% was secured by property under construction. The current downturn in the real estate market, the deterioration in the value of collateral, and the local and national economic recessions, have adversely affected our clients’ ability to repay their loans. If these conditions persist, or get worse, our clients’ ability to repay their loans will be further eroded. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, we may be unable to recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, and consequently, we would sustain loan losses. If our nonperforming loans continue to increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2008, our non-performing loans (which consist of non-accrual and restructured loans) totaled $98.6 million, or 5.04% of the total loan portfolio, which is an increase of $73.5 million, or 293% over non-performing loans at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were $107.8 million, or 4.33% of total assets. In addition, the Bank had approximately $0.1 million in accruing loans that were over 90 days delinquent and still accruing as of December 31, 2008. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses as well as from time to time, as appropriate, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability depends largely on the Bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and our borrowings. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, as is likely in the current zero interest rate policy environment, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thus reducing our net interest income. -17- Table of Contents Our loan portfolio is heavily concentrated in mortgage loans secured by properties in Florida and Georgia. Our interest-earning assets are heavily concentrated in mortgage loans secured by real estate, particularly real estate located in Florida and Georgia. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 75.9% of our loans had real estate as a primary, secondary, or tertiary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower; however, the value of the collateral may decline during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values, such as in today’s market, to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008, substantially all of our loans secured by real estate are secured by commercial and residential properties located in Northern Florida and Middle Georgia. The concentration of our loans in this area subjects us to risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in those areas, such as the one the areas are currently experiencing, could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect us than if our lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in Florida and Georgia, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us. We may suffer further losses due to the decline in the value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans, which would have an adverse impact on our operations. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: · general or local economic conditions; · environmental cleanup liability; · neighborhood values; · interest rates; · real estate tax rates; · operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; · supply of and demand for rental units or properties; · ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; · zoning laws; · governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and · acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could negatively impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, adverse regulatory action against us, or our inability to attract and retain deposits. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets. -18- Table of Contents We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. If we do raise additional capital, your ownership could be diluted. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or for future growth. Such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Further, our Articles of Incorporation do not provide shareowners with preemptive rights and such shares may be offered to investors other than shareowners at the discretion of the Board. If we do sell additional shares of common stock to raise capital, the sale could dilute your ownership interest and such dilution could be substantial. Concerns of clients over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in our deposits. With increased concerns about bank failures, clients are increasingly concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Clients may withdraw deposits from CCB in an effort to ensure that the amount that they have on deposit at CCB is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. See Regulatory Considerations – Capital City Bank – Insurance Accounts and Other Assessments for further discussion. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth, maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire into our organization. Our earnings growth relies, at least in part, on strategic acquisitions. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of financial institutions or offices will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or offices. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or offices. In addition, we may fail to realize the growth opportunities and cost savings we anticipate to be derived from our acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions causes us to take on additional risks such as the risks of unknown or contingent liabilities, exposure to potential asset quality issues from acquired institutions, and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing business and operations. Finally, it is possible that during the integration process of our acquisitions, we could lose key associates or the ability to maintain relationships with clients. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new offices or through strategic acquisitions, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new offices, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Potential acquisitions may dilute shareowner value. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other financial institutions. As a result, merger and acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future acquisitions. Future economic growth in our Florida market area is likely to be slower compared to previous years. The State of Florida’s population growth has historically exceeded national averages. Consequently, the state has experienced substantial growth in population, new business formation and public works spending. Due to the moderation of economic growth and migration into our market area and the downturn in the real estate market, management believes that growth in our market area will be restrained in the near term. We have experienced an overall slow down in the origination of residential mortgage loans recently due to the slowing in residential real estate sales activity in our markets. A decrease in existing and new home sales decreases lending opportunities and negatively affects our income. Continued deterioration in the housing market and property values could lead to additional valuation adjustments in our loan portfolios. -19- Table of Contents The market value of our investments could decline. Our investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2008 has been designated as available-for-sale pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 (“SFAS 115") relating to accounting for investments. SFAS 115 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale portfolio be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in shareholders’ equity (net of tax) as accumulated other comprehensive income. At December 31, 2008, we maintained all of our investment securities in the available-for-sale classification. Shareowners’ equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax) of these investments. The market value of our investment portfolio may decline, causing a corresponding decline in shareowners’ equity. Management believes that several factors will affect the market values of our investment portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates). These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and we cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. Confidential client information transmitted through our online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose us to litigation and adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits. We provide our clients the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of banking online. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits. We must comply with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. Since September 11, 2001, banking regulators have intensified their focus on anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements, particularly the anti-money laundering provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place will permit us to fully comply with these laws. Furthermore, financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future may or may not have had adequate policies, procedures and systems to fully comply with these laws. Whether our own policies, procedures and systems are deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. -20- Table of Contents We are exposed to operational risk because of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to operational risk because of providing various fee-based services including electronic banking, item processing, data processing, correspondent banking, merchant services, and asset management. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company or business interruption due to system failures or other events. We continually assess and monitor operational risk in our business lines and provide for disaster and business recovery planning including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise because of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements that could have an adverse affect on our reputation. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from the Bank. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank, the Bank must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the Federal Home Loan Bank. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareowners. The Bank’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results. Please refer to the Section entitled “Business – Regulatory Considerations” of this Report. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Limited trading activity for shares of our common stock may contribute to price volatility. While our common stock is listed and traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, there has been limited trading activity in our common stock. The average daily trading volume of our common stock over the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2008 was approximately 39,293 shares. Due to the limited trading activity of our common stock, relativity small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Our insiders have substantial control over matters requiring shareowner approval, including changes of control. Our insiders who own more than 5% of our common stock, directors, and executive officers, beneficially owned approximately 45.67% of the outstanding shares of our stock as of February 27, 2009. Accordingly, these principal shareowners, directors, and executive officers, if acting together, may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareowners, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareowners of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. -21- Table of Contents Our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and certain laws and regulations may prevent or delay transactions you might favor, including a sale or merger of CCBG. CCBG is registered with the Federal Reserve as a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and is a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. As a result, we are subject to supervisory regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Bank Holding Company Act, and other federal laws subject financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain laws and regulations and various other factors may make it more difficult and expensive for companies or persons to acquire control of us without the consent of our Board of Directors. It is possible, however, that you would want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential buyer could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our common stock. For example, our Articles of Incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareowner action. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage a company from attempting to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Additionally, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws divide our Board of Directors into three classes, as nearly equal in size as possible, with staggered three-year terms. One class is elected each year. The classification of our Board of Directors could make it more difficult for a company to acquire control of us. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act and our Articles of Incorporation that relate to business combinations with interested shareowners. Other provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: · Supermajority voting requirements to remove a director from office; · Provisions regarding the timing and content of shareowner proposals and nominations; · Supermajority voting requirements to amend Articles of Incorporation unless approval is received by a majority of “disinterested directors”; · Absence of cumulative voting; and · Inability for shareowners to take action by written consent. Our shares of common stock are not an insured deposit. The shares of our common stock are not a bank deposit and will not be insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Your investment will be subject to investment risk, and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment. -22- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 