Item 1A: Risk Factors This "Risk Factors" section contains references to our "capital stock" and to our "stockholders." Unless expressly stated otherwise, the references to our "capital stock" represent our common stock and any class or series of our preferred stock, while the references to our "stockholders" represent holders of our common stock and any class or series of our preferred stock. In order to grow we need to continue to acquire investment properties. The acquisition of investment properties may be subject to competitive pressures. We face competition in the acquisition, operation and sale of property. We expect competition from: ● Businesses; ● Individuals; ● Fiduciary accounts and plans; and ● Other entities engaged in real estate investment and financing. Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties we wish to purchase. Negative market conditions or adverse events affecting our existing or potential tenants, or the industries in which they operate, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new tenants, re-lease space, collect rent or renew leases, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and inhibit growth. Cash flow from operations depends in part on the ability to lease space to tenants on economically favorable terms. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited or no control, such as: ● Lack of demand in areas where our properties are located; ● Inability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants; ● Oversupply of space and changes in market rental rates; ● Declines in our tenants' creditworthiness and ability to pay rent, which may be affected by their operations, the current economic situation and competition within their industries from other operators; ● Defaults by and bankruptcies of tenants, failure of tenants to pay rent on a timely basis, or failure of tenants to comply with their contractual obligations; and ● Economic or physical decline of the areas where the properties are located. At any time, any tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its operating results or overall financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant's lease and material losses to us. If tenants do not renew their leases as they expire, we may not be able to rent or sell the properties. Furthermore, leases that are renewed, and some new leases for properties that are re-leased, may have terms that are less economically favorable than expiring lease terms, or may require us to incur significant costs, such as renovations, tenant improvements or lease transaction costs. Negative market conditions may cause us to sell vacant properties for less than their carrying value, which could result in impairments. Any of these events could adversely affect cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to shareholders and service indebtedness. A significant portion of the costs of owning property, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance, are not necessarily reduced when circumstances caus e a decrease in rental revenue from the properties. In a weakened financial condition, tenants may not be able to pay these costs of ownership and we may be unable to recover these operating expenses from them. -18- Table of contents Further, the occurrence of a tenant bankruptcy or insolvency could diminish the income we receive from the tenant's lease or leases. In addition, a bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to terminate its leases with us. If that happens, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that most likely would be substantially less than the remaining rent we are owed under the leases. In addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent, if any, may not be paid in full. As a result, tenant bankruptcies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these events could adversely affect cash from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and service indebtedness. Eighty-four of our properties were available for lease or sale at December 31, 2010, of which all but one were single-tenant properties. At December 31, 2010, 32 of our properties under lease were unoccupied and available for sublease by the tenants, all of which were current with their rent and other obligations. During 2010, each of our tenants accounted for less than 10% of our rental revenue. For the fourth quarter of 2010, our tenants in the restaurant and convenience store industries accounted for approximately 19.1% and 17.4%, respectively, of our rental revenue. A downturn in either of these industries, whether nationwide or limited to specific sectors of the United States could adversely affect tenants in these industries, which in turn could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions on our common stock and preferred stock. Individually, each of the other industries in our property portfolio accounted for less than 10% of our rental revenue for the fourth quarter of 2010. Nevertheless, downturns in these other industries could also adversely affect our tenants , which in turn could also have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions on our common and preferred stock. In addition, we may in the future make additional investments in the restaurant industry and convenience store industry, which would increase these industries’ percentages of our rental revenues, thereby increasing the effect that such a downturn in these industries would have on us. In addition, a substantial number of our properties are leased to middle-market retail and other commercial enterprises that generally have more limited financial and other resources than certain upper-market retail and other commercial enterprises, and therefore, they are more likely to be adversely affected by a downturn in their respective businesses or in the regional or national economy. Furthermore, we may make selected acquisitions of properties that fall outside our historical focus on freestanding, single-tenant, net-lease retail locations in the United States. We may be exposed to a variety of new risks by expanding into new property types and/or new jurisdictions outside the United States. These risks may include a limited knowledge and understanding of the industry in which the tenant operates, new types of real estate locations and lease structures, and new laws and culture of any non-U.S. jurisdiction. As a property owner, we may be subject to unknown environmental liabilities. Investments in real property can create a potential for environmental liability. An owner of property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We can face such liability regardless of: ● Our knowledge of the contamination; ● The timing of the contamination; ● The cause of the contamination; or ● The party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties of which we are unaware. In that regard, a number of our properties are leased to operators of convenience stores that sell petroleum-based fuels, as well as to operators of oil change and tune-up facilities and operators that use chemicals and other waste products. These facilities, and some other of our properties, use, or may have used in the past, underground lifts or underground tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products, which could create a potential for the release of hazardous substances. -19- Table of contents The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell that property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. Although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from the tenants’ activities on the property, we could nevertheless be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest. There also can be no assurance that our tenants could or would satisfy their indemnification obligations under their leases. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition or our ability to make distribu tions to stockholders and to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness. In addition, several of our properties were built during the period when asbestos was commonly used in building construction and other buildings with asbestos may be acquired by us in the future. Environmental laws govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, and require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement in the event that asbestos is disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. It is also possible that some of our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation of the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, should our tenants or their employees or customers be exposed to mold at any of our properties we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property, which would reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, exposure to mold by our tenants or others could expose us to liability if property damage or health concerns arise. Compliance. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous substances, toxic substances, or petroleum products in connection with any of our present properties. In addition, we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with all present federal, state and local laws relating to ACMs. Nevertheless, if environmental contamination should exist, we could be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest. Insurance and Indemnity. In June 2005, we entered into a seven-year environmental insurance policy, or the June 2005 policy, which expires on June 1, 2012 on our property portfolio which replaced the previous five-year environmental insurance policy. The limits on our current policy are $10 million per occurrence, and $50 million in the aggregate, subject to a $40,000 self insurance retention, per occurrence, for properties with underground storage tanks and a $100,000 self insurance retention, per occurrence, for all other properties. Additionally, in December 2009, we entered into a ten-year environmental insurance policy that expires in December 2019 that will initially act in an excess capacity to our June 2005 policy. On June 1, 2012, this policy will become our primary environmental policy with the same limits as the June 2005 policy, except that once we pay a total of $1 million for self insurance retention, there will be a $50,000 per loss maintenance fee, rather than the $100,000 self insurance retention, per occurrence, for general environmental claims. It is possible that our insurance could be insufficient to address any particular environmental situation and that, in the future, we could be unable to obtain insurance for environmental matters at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our tenants are generally responsible for, and indemnify us against, liabilities for environmental matters that occur on our properties. For properties that have underground storage tanks, in addition to providing an indemnity in our favor, the tenants generally obtain environmental insurance or rely upon the state funds in the states where these properties are located to reimburse tenants for environmental remediation. -20- Table of contents If we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the amount of dividends we are able to pay would decrease, which could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and could adversely affect the value of our debt securities. Commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, we believe that we have been organized and have operated, and we intend to continue to operate, so as to qualify as a "REIT" under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. However, we cannot assure you that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that has satisfied the requirements for qualification as a REIT, or that we will continue to be organized or operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements under highly technical and complex Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in each year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (as defined in the Code and determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). In the future, it is possible that legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to satisfy all of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, we may be subject to certain penalty taxes or, in some circumstances, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: ● We would be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; ● We would not be allowed a deduction in computing our taxable income for amounts distributed to our stockholders; ● We could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost; ● We would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders; and ● This treatment would substantially reduce amounts available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability for the years involved, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, if we have net income from a prohibited transaction, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. Our subsidiary, Crest, is subject to federal and state taxes at the applicable tax rates on its income and property. Distributions requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains each year. We also are subject to tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (including net capital gains) each year. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax to the extent that we fail to distribute during any calendar year at least the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year, and any amount of that income that was not distributed in prior years. -21- Table of contents We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Code as well as to reduce our exposure to federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses to arrive at taxable income, along with the effect of required debt amortization payments, could require us to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. Future issuances of equity securities could dilute the interest of holders of our common stock. Our future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability to raise additional capital. If we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the interests of holders of our common stock. The interests of our common stockholders could also be diluted by the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options or pursuant to stock incentive plans. Likewise, our Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue preferred stock of any class or series (with dividend, voting and other rights as determined by the Board of Directors). Accordingly, the Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting, dividend and other similar rights that could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interest of holders of our common stock. We are subject to risks associated with debt and capital stock financing. We intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our $425 million acquisition credit facility. At December 31, 2010, we had no borrowings outstanding under our $425 million acquisition credit facility and we had a total of $1.6 billion of outstanding unsecured senior debt securities. To the extent that new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. As a result, we are and will be subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments on our debt. We also face variable interest rate risk as the interest rate on our $425 million credit facility is variable and could therefore increase over time. We also face the risk that we may be unable to refinance or re pay our debt as it comes due. Given the recent disruptions in the financial markets and the ongoing financial crisis in Europe (which relates primarily to concerns that certain European countries may be unable to repay their national debt), we also face the risk that one or more of the participants in our credit facility may not be able to lend us money. In addition, our $425 million credit facility contains provisions that could limit or, in certain cases, prohibit the payment of distributions on our common stock and preferred stock. In particular, our $425 million acquisition credit facility provides that, if an event of default (as defined in the credit facility) exists, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries may make any distributions on (except distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the shareholders of that class), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or preferred stock, during any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount in excess of the greater of: ● The sum of (a) 95% of our adjusted funds from operations (as defined in the credit facility) for that period plus (b) the aggregate amount of cash distributions on our preferred stock for that period, and ● The minimum amount of cash distributions required to be made to our shareholders in order to maintain our status as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes, except that we may repurchase or redeem preferred stock with the net proceeds from the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. The $425 million credit facility further provides that, in the event of a failure to pay principal, interest or any other amount payable thereunder when due or upon the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to us or with respect to any of our subsidiaries that has guaranteed amounts payable under the credit facility or that meets a significance test set forth in the credit facility, we and our subsidiaries may not pay any distributions on (except distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the shareholders of that class), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or preferred stock. If any s uch event of default were to occur, it would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our outstanding common and preferred stock and on the market value of our debt securities, and may adversely affect our ability to qualify, or prevent us from qualifying, as a REIT. -22- Table of contents Our indebtedness could also have other important consequences to holders of our common and preferred stock, including: ● Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; ● Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; ● Requiring the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; ● Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and ● Putting us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness. Our business operations may not generate the cash needed to make distributions on our capital stock or to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make distributions on our common stock and preferred stock and payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock and preferred stock, to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. The market value of our capital stock and debt securities could be substantially affected by various factors. The market value of our capital stock and debt securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including: ● Prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market value of our capital stock and debt securities; ● The market for similar securities issued by other REITs; ● General economic and financial market conditions; ● The financial condition, performance and prospects of us, our tenants and our competitors; ● Changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us, our competitors or our industry; ● Changes in our credit ratings; and ● Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results. In addition, over the last three years, prices of common stock in the U.S. trading markets have been experiencing extreme price fluctuations, and the market price of our common stock has also fluctuated significantly during this period. As a result of these and other factors, investors who purchase our capital stock and debt securities may experience a decrease, which could be substantial and rapid, in the market value of our capital stock and debt securities, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Real estate ownership is subject to particular economic conditions that may have a negative impact on our revenue. We are subject to all of the inherent risks associated with the ownership of real estate. In particular, we face the risk that rental revenue from our properties may be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses, debt service payments on indebtedness we incur and distributions on our capital stock. Additional real estate ownership risks include: ● Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions; ● Changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing properties; ● Changes in interest rates and operating expenses; ● Competition for tenants; ● Changes in market rental rates; ● Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases; ● Renewal of leases at lower rental rates; ● Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy; -23- Table of contents ● Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate; ● Uninsured property liability; ● Property damage or casualty losses; ● Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements or to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws; ● The need to periodically renovate and repair our properties; ● Physical or weather-related damage to properties; ● The potential risk of functional obsolescence of properties over time; ● Acts of terrorism and war; and ● Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policy limits on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. The insurance policies our tenants are required to maintain for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements. Our tenants are generally required to maintain gener al liability coverage varying between $1,000,000 and $10,000,000 depending on the tenant and the industry in which the tenant operates. In addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above, many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies (subject to substantial deductibles) obtained and paid for by the tenants as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability, flood and earthquake (subject to substantial deductibles) and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the tenants fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. However, should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we coul d lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. Given the recent disruptions in the insurance industry, we also face the risk that our insurance carriers may not be able to provide payment under any potential claims that might arise under the terms of our insurance policies, and we may not have the ability to purchase insurance policies we desire. -24- Table of contents Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations. Our properties are generally required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities," but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. The retailers to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and we believe that these retailers may be obligated to cover costs associated with compliance. If required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these retailers to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. Property taxes may increase without notice. The real property taxes on our properties and any other properties that we develop or acquire in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. We depend on key personnel. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of our executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. It is possible that we will not be able to recruit additional personnel with equivalent experience in the net-lease industry. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the value of our debt and equity securities, the markets in which we operate and our results of operations. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations, the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks, or armed conflicts, may directly impact our physical facilities or the businesses of our tenants. If events like these were to occur, they could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in or prolong an economic recession in the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and revenues and on the market price of our capital stock and on the value of our debt securities. It could also have an adverse effect on our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt securities or other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. -25- Table of contents Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock. Over the last three years, the United States stock and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks and debt securities to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. More recently, the financial crisis in Europe (which relates primarily to concerns that certain European countries may be unable to pay their national debt) has had a similar, although less pronounced, effect. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to acce ss additional financing at reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of financing or difficulties in obtaining financing. These events in the stock and credit markets may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock or debt securities. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, the income we receive from our properties and the lease rates we can charge for our properties, as well as othe r unknown adverse effects on us or the economy in general. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although inflation has not materially impacted our results of operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on any variable rate debt we incur in the future and on our results of operations. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, as provided for in our leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation. Likewise, even though net leases reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation, substantial inflationary pressures and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our tenants if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue, which may adversely affect the tenants' ability to pay rent. Current volatility in market and economic conditions may impact the accuracy of the various estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements and footnotes to the financial statements. Various estimates are used in the preparation of our financial statements, including estimates related to asset and liability valuations (or potential impairments), and various receivables. Often these estimates require the use of market data values which are currently difficult to assess, as well as estimates of future performance or receivables collectability which can also be difficult to accurately predict. Although management believes it has been prudent and used reasonable judgment in making these estimates, it is possible that actual results may differ from these estimates. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The SEC is currently considering whether issuers in the U.S. should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, instead of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, which are rapidly gaining worldwide acceptance. The SEC has indicated that it will decide in 2011 whether IFRS will be required for U.S. issuers. If the SEC decides to require IFRS, it expects that U.S. issuers would first report under the new standards beginning in approximately 2015 or 2016, although the timeframe has not been finalized. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, is considering various changes to GAAP, some of w hich may be significant, as part of a joint effort with the IASB to converge accounting standards. Although the FASB and IASB currently have a project on their agenda to examine the accounting for leases, the project may not result in the issuance of a final standard or a standard that would be comparable to current GAAP. If IFRS is adopted, the potential issues associated with lease accounting, along with other potential changes associated with the adoption or convergence with IFRS, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. -26- Table of contents Item 1B: Unresolved Staff comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 