Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should not be considered to include all risks to the Company or all risks related to an investment in the Company. The Company may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. The Company has determined that significant additional sources of liquidity and capital will likely be required to continue operations in the future. The Company has engaged a financial advisor to explore strategic alternatives to resolve the capital and liquidity deficiencies. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain sufficient liquidity or to raise additional capital to satisfy regulatory requirements and meet obligations as they occur. Further, the regulators are continually monitoring the liquidity and capital adequacy and evaluating the Company’s ability to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner. The Bank’s regulators could, if deemed warranted, take further actions, including the assumption of control of the Bank, to protect the interests of the depositors insured by the FDIC. The uncertainty regarding the Company’s ability to obtain additional capital or meet future liquidity requirements raises doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements included under Part II, item 8 of this report, however, does not include any adjustments that may result as an outcome of these uncertainties. The Company is required to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available. The Company and the Bank are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. The Company may decide to raise additional capital to support growth or absorb loan losses. In addition, the use of brokered deposits without regulatory approval is limited to banks that are well-capitalized according to regulation. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance and prospects. Accordingly, the Company cannot be certain of its ability to raise additional capital. If the Company cannot raise additional capital the Bank may be subjected to additional adverse regulatory action. The Company’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or an unforeseen outflow of cash. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business and it relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of operations. Due to circumstances that the Company may be unable to control, such as a general capital markets disruption or negative news about banks generally, liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets, an unforeseen outflow of cash due to depositor withdrawals or a disruption in lending programs of the FRB or FHLB. 13 Table of Contents As a result of the Bank’s regulatory capital falling below the requirements for adequately capitalized status as of December 31, 2008, the Bank is unable to issue brokered certificates of deposit and faces certain regulatory limits in the rates it can pay to depositors. The Company may be subject to additional regulatory enforcement action that could place significant restrictions on the Company’s operations. Under applicable laws, the FDIC and the DFI have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on the Bank if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which the Company must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Applicable law prohibits disclosure of specific examination findings by the institution although formal enforcement actions are routinely disclosed by the regulatory authorities. The Bank is currently subject to a Supervisory Directive that was issued in August 2008. In light of that directive, and due to continued increase in nonperforming assets and current regulatory deficiency it is likely that additional formal regulatory enforcement action will be imposed. The FDIC and DFI may require certain corrective steps, impose limits on activities, prescribe lending parameters and require additional capital to be raised. Failure to adhere to the requirements, if imposed, could result in more severe restrictions including seizure of the Bank. Generally, these enforcement actions can be lifted only after subsequent examinations substantiate complete correction of the underlying issues. The Company has a significant concentration in real estate loans and a prolonged recession or further downturn in the economy of the markets served or the real estate market specifically could significantly harm its business and prospects for growth. As of December 31, 2008, the loan portfolio consisted of: • 39% commercial real estate loans; • 24% construction, land development and other land loans; • 13% commercial and industrial loans; • 12% residential real estate loans; • 10% agricultural loans; and • 2% installment and other loans. The Company is particularly susceptible to fluctuating land and property values as a result of the recent economic downturn and related level of real estate investment activity. Changes in regional economic conditions could result in increased loan delinquencies. Collateral for the loans could decline in value and, as a result, the Company’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would be diminished and the Company would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Any prolonged or increased economic decline in the market areas served could also reduce demand for loans and other products and services and, accordingly, reduce income. A substantial amount of the Company’s real property collateral is located in Central and Eastern Washington and Utah and a further downturn in the real estate markets or prolonged recessionary climate could harm the Company’s business. A further downturn in the real estate markets or lack of improved conditions, especially in those markets served by the Company, could harm business because 80% of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, an economic slowdown, an increase in interest rates, drought and other natural disasters, specific to Washington, Utah and Idaho. The ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling real estate collateral becomes diminished under such circumstances, and the Company is more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The greater Salt Lake City area and Utah economies each have grown rapidly during the past several years, and the failure of these economies to sustain such growth in the future could affect the Company’s ability to grow. Salt Lake City, surrounding communities and other Utah communities served by the Bank have experienced significant economic growth in recent years, which created a demand for the Bank’s loan and 14 Table of Contents deposit products. Failure to sustain this growth or deterioration in local economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. Particularly, a weakening of the real estate or employment market in Utah, which with the Far West Bancorporation (FWBC) merger has become one of the Company’s largest markets, could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans. These events could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and asset quality. The Company has not been through a variety of business cycles since it began operations in Utah and, as a result, may not effectively evaluate the future prospects and this lack of operating history may increase the risk that the Company will not continue to be successful. The Company began operations in Utah in 2006, shortly followed with the FWBC merger, and since that time the markets in Utah in which the Company conducts business have, until recently, experienced substantial economic growth. As a result, the Company does not have an operating history during a serious downturn in the real estate market for evaluation of performance relative to future prospects. Consideration must be given to the business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties the Company will encounter if the Utah economy experiences a severe downturn, greater than what is currently taking place. The Company may not be able to address these risks and difficulties successfully, which could materially harm the business and its operating results. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may harm financial performance. Unfavorable changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may increase the net interest margin and loan yield, but it may adversely affect the ability of borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. The Company does not have control of these factors. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially harm the net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company maintains an allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could adversely impact operating results. The allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the inherent risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the loans and allowance for credit losses. While management believes that the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover current potential losses, management may decide to increase the allowance for credit losses or regulators may require the Company to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could reduce future earnings. Construction and land development lending involves special risks not associated with other types of lending. Construction and land development loans are subject to the risks inherent in most other loans, but also carry higher levels of risk predicated on whether the project can be completed on-time and on-budget, and, for non-owner occupied projects, whether the customer can find tenants or sell lots or units at rates that will service the debt. Construction loans are typically based upon estimates of costs to complete the project, and an appraised value associated with the completed project. Cost estimates, and completed appraised values, are subject to changes in the market, and such values may in fact change between the time a loan is approved and the final project is complete. Delays or cost overruns in completing a project may arise from labor problems, material shortages and other unpredicted contingencies. If actual construction costs exceed budget, the borrower may need 15 Table of Contents to put more capital into the project, or the Bank may need to increase the loan amount to ensure the project is completed, potentially resulting in a higher loan-to-value than anticipated. Where a non-owner occupied project is not pre-leased, changes in the market could result in a slow lease-up period or rents below what were anticipated. For residential land development loans, a general slowdown in home buying can result in slow sales or reduced prices. Either situation will strain the borrower’s cash flows, and potentially cause deterioration in the loan. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could harm business. The Company currently conducts its banking operations primarily in Central and Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho and Utah. Increased competition in its markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services within the Company’s market area, including national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and the range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. The Company also faces competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in its market areas. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, the Company may be unable to continue to grow the loan and deposit portfolios and results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be harmed. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in the Company’s market area, could harm business. The Company’s business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, in particular an economic slowdown in Central and Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho or Utah, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially hurt the business of the Company: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for products and services may decrease; low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. The States of Washington, Idaho and Utah and certain local governments in the market area presently face fiscal challenges the long term impact of which on State or local economies cannot be predicted. If the Bank is unable to pay the holding company cash dividends to meet its cash obligations, the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected. Dividends paid by the Bank to the Parent Company provide cash flow used to service the interest payments on trust preferred securities. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the Parent Company without regulatory approval. Currently, the Bank’s payment of dividends is subject to receipt of the prior written consent of the Director of Banks for the State of Washington and the FDIC and the Company may not be able to receive their consent. It is possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to 16 Table of Contents the Parent Company, is an unsafe or unsound practice. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Parent Company, the Parent Company may not be able to service its debt or pay its obligations. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could lead to continued deferral of dividends on existing trust preferred securities. Effective the third quarter of 2008 the Parent Company deferred the interest payments on the trust preferred securities, in accordance with the provisions of the related indentures, in an effort to minimize the required dividend from the Bank and since the Supervisory Directive requires approval and consent before paying any such dividends. The Company’s common stock may no longer qualify for listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) requires that listing public securities have a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share in order to qualify for continued listing. Although enforcement of this rule was temporarily suspended in October 2008 in response to the extraordinary equity market conditions, there is no assurance that the suspension will be further extended beyond the scheduled expiration date of July 20, 2009. In accordance with Rule 4450(a)(5), companies that do not meet the minimum bid price requirements are formally notified by NASDAQ and provided with an ability to cure the deficiency within 30 days and the right to appeal. Should the Company’s shares be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, there is no assurance that a liquid and efficient market for AmericanWest Bancorporation common stock will be available or develop. Although the shares may be eligible for trading on other exchanges, such as the “OTC Bulletin Board,” it is possible that the ability of a selling shareholder to realize the best market price will be impeded as the result of wider bid-ask spreads. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Bank and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Bank may face the following risks in connection with these events: • There could be increased regulation of the industry. • The Bank’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches the Bank uses to select, manage, and underwrite its loans become less predictive of future behaviors and performance. • The process the Bank uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • The Bank will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums under a recently proposed amendment to the framework for risk based assessments, because market developments have significantly depleted the deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. In addition, the Bank will likely be required to pay higher deposit premiums under the existing framework due to it being classified as under-capitalized. 17 Table of Contents • The Bank’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. • The Bank may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Conditions in the financial markets may limit the Company’s access to additional funding to meet liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to the Bank’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, or the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on the Bank’s liquidity. The Bank’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities could be impaired by factors that affect the Bank specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Bank’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of business activity due to a market down turn or adverse regulatory action against the Bank. The Bank’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to the Bank, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative developments and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. The Bank’s wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support future growth. The Bank must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of its liquidity management, the Bank depends upon a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. If the Bank were to continue to grow in future periods, it is likely to become more dependent on these sources including Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (FHLB) advances, secured borrowings from the FRB, proceeds from the sale of loans and liquidity resources at the Company. At December 31, 2008, the Bank had approximately $139.7 million of FHLB advances outstanding. The Company’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if the Bank is unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If the Bank is required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs, and profitability would be adversely affected. Furthermore, the Bank’s ability to borrow on a secured basis may be reduced as a result of adjustments in collateral coverage requirements. In the case of the FHLB, the Bank’s borrowing capacity may be reduced due to concerns regarding the Bank’s financial condition and/or the FHLB’s unilateral decision to curtail certain lending in an effort to improve regulatory capital ratios. Federal and state governments could pass legislation responsive to current credit conditions. The Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, the Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or that makes foreclosure less economically feasible. Changes in accounting standards may impact how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. 18 Table of Contents The value of securities in the investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some investment securities held in the Bank’s portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and capital levels. The Bank’s investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (FHLB) stock may become impaired. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank held $8.3 million of FHLB stock as required under certain borrowing agreements. During the first quarter of 2009, the FHLB indicated that its ability to pay future dividends was uncertain due to reduction of its retained earnings resulting from the recognition of investment security impairments. The valuation of the FHLB stock with the Bank may become impaired if the FHLB is unable to pay a cash dividend or continues to experience significant losses for an extended period. During 2008, the Company recognized approximately $97 thousand of dividend income from FHLB stock. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation authorizing the U.S. government to inject capital into financial institutions and purchase assets from financial institutions will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, invest in preferred stock of financial institutions and purchase mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or access to credit, or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict the Company’s activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the FDIC adopted guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. This guidance is intended to help ensure that institutions pursuing a significant commercial real estate lending strategy remain healthy and profitable while continuing to serve the credit needs of their communities. The federal agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The regulatory guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. There are two numerical measures in the regulatory guidance. The thresholds of numerical indicators in the guidance that indicate significant commercial real estate loan concentrations are as follows: (1) loans in the Call Report (the quarterly Report of Condition required to be filed with federal banking regulators) categories of Construction, Land Development and Other Land loans are greater than 100% of the institution’s Tier 1 Capital; and (2) commercial real estate loans, as defined in the guidance, are greater than 300% of the institution’s total Tier 1 Capital. The first numerical indicator, the aggregate of construction, land development and other land loans divided by the Bank’s Tier 1 Capital was 400% as of December 31, 2008. The second numerical indicator, the aggregate of our non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, divided by the Bank’s Tier I Capital was 19 Table of Contents 815% as of December 31, 2008. Thus, the Bank’s portfolio meets the definition of a concentration, as set forth in the guidelines. The guidance does not limit banks’ commercial real estate lending, but rather guides institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations. The Bank’s lending and risk management practices are taken into account in supervisory evaluations of its capital adequacy. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may harm prospects. The Company currently depends heavily on the services of its key management personnel. The loss of services of key personnel in the future could harm the results of operations and financial condition. Success also depends in part on the ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel required or obtaining required regulatory approval for new personnel. The Company may not grow to an asset size to support the existing infrastructure. The Company’s infrastructure, including delivery systems, staffing, facilities, technology and experienced staff, was developed in the recent years to support continued growth. Until the Company’s capital levels improve, regulatory requirements will limit the ability to grow through acquisitions, de novo branches or new lines of business. The Company has implemented a revised organizational structure and consolidated its retail banking, commercial banking and private banking delivery channels intending to decrease the Company’s infrastructure. If the Company does not adequately decrease its infrastructure and is unable to grow, it may not reach a size to materialize on economies of scale and produce improved operating results. The failure to improve the operating efficiency of the Bank will adversely impact the amount of retained earnings available for dividends to the Company. This, in turn, will adversely impact the ability of the Company to service its debt and may require additional capital to be raised in the future. The Company is subject to extensive regulation. The Company and the Bank’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. Because the banking business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company and the Bank are subject to frequent change. There are typically proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would adversely impact operations. These proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, could (1) make compliance more difficult or expensive, (2) restrict the ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold, or (4) otherwise harm business or prospects for business. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental and other liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the ordinary course of business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could be or become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Bank may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Bank ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, the business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. The Company may not be successful achieving anticipated cost savings from the new business model or consolidations of financial centers. The Company may not be able to execute the new business model while maintaining high levels of customer service and, therefore, may be unable to recognize the anticipated cost savings. The Company may experience greater than expected costs in connection with the revised business model. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 