Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should not be considered to include all risks to the Company. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), the Company maintains an allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could adversely impact operating results. The allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the inherent risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the loans and allowance for credit losses. While management believes that the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover current losses, management may decide to increase the allowance for credit losses in future periods or regulators may require the Company to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could reduce future earnings. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in the Company’s market area, could harm business. The Company’s business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local factors, in particular an economic slowdown in Central and Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho or Utah, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially hurt the business of the Company: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for products and services may decrease; low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. The States of Washington, Idaho and Utah and certain local governments in the market area presently face fiscal challenges the long term impact of which on State or local economies cannot be predicted. A downturn in the real estate market is harming business. A significant downturn in the real estate market, especially in those markets served by the Bank, is harming business as a significant portion of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate. The ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral could then be diminished, and the Bank would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. A substantial amount of the Bank’s real property collateral is located in Central and Eastern Washington and Utah. The bank has significant concentrations of credit in commercial real estate loans. Real estate values could 10 Table of Contents be affected by, among other things, an economic slowdown, an increase in interest rates, drought and other natural disasters, specific to Washington or Utah. The greater Salt Lake City area and Utah economies each have grown rapidly during the past several years, and the failure of these economies to sustain such growth in the future could affect the Company’s ability to grow. Salt Lake City, surrounding communities and other Utah communities served by the Bank’s Far West Bank division each have experienced significant economic growth in recent years, which has created a demand for the Company’s loan and deposit products. Failure to sustain this growth or deterioration in local economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. Particularly, a weakening of the real estate or employment market in Utah, which with the Far West Bank merger has become one of the Company’s largest markets, could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans. These events could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and asset quality. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may harm financial performance. Unfavorable changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may increase the net interest margin and loan yield, but it may adversely affect the ability of borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. The Company does not have control of these factors. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially harm the net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could harm business. The Company currently conducts its banking operations primarily in Central and Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho and Utah. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and/or deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services within the market area of the Bank. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions including, without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and the range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. The Company also faces competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in the Bank’s market areas. If the Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, the Company may be unable to continue to grow the loan and deposit portfolios, and results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be harmed. The Company is subject to extensive regulation which could harm business. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. Because the banking business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to frequent change. There are typically proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would adversely impact 11 Table of Contents operations. These proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, could (1) make compliance more difficult or expensive, (2) restrict the ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold, or (4) otherwise harm business or prospects for business. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the ordinary course of business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could be or become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Company may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, the business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may harm prospects. The Company currently depends heavily on the services of its president and chief executive officer, Robert M. Daugherty, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Daugherty’s services or that of other key personnel could harm the results of operations and financial condition. Success also depends in part on the ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel required. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 