Item 1A. Risk Factors AmericanWest Bank faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could negatively affect business. AWB is facing strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could negatively affect business. AWB conducts its banking operations primarily in Central and Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho. Increased competition in that market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, AWB may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that AWB offers. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. AWB also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, AWB’s competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs 13 Table of Contents of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. AWB also faces competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in the market areas. If AWB is unable to attract and retain banking customers, AWB may be unable to continue to grow the loan and deposit portfolios and the results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Washington or Idaho, could materially and negatively affect business. AWBC’s business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, in particular an economic slowdown in Washington or Idaho, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt the business materially: (1) loan delinquencies may increase, (2) problem assets and foreclosures may increase, (3) demand for products and services may decrease, (4) low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease, and (5) collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. The states of Washington and Idaho and certain local governments in the market area presently face fiscal challenges of which the long term impact on their economies cannot be predicted. A downturn in the real estate market could negatively affect business. A significant downturn in the real estate market, especially in those markets served by AWBC, could negatively affect business because a significant portion, approximately 62% as of December 31, 2005, of the existing loans are secured by real estate. Substantially all of the real property collateral is located in Central and Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, an economic slowdown, an increase in interest rates, or drought and other natural disasters particular to Washington and Idaho. AWBC’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and the Company would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. AWBC is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect prospects. AWBC is currently dependent heavily on the services of the president and chief executive officer, Robert M. Daugherty, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Daugherty’s services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. AWBC’s success also depends in part on the ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel required. AWBC is subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect business. Because the banking business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would materially impact operations. There can be no assurance that these proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could: (1) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (2) restrict the ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold, or (4) otherwise adversely affect business or prospects for business. AWBC is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which title is acquired. In the ordinary course of business, AWBC may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. AWBC may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or 14 Table of Contents clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, AWBC may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If AWBC ever becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, the financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Only a limited trading market exists for AWBC’s common stock which could lead to price volatility. AWBC’s common stock was designated for quotation on the Nasdaq National Market in May, 1995 under its predecessor’s name, United Security Bancorporation, and trading volumes since that time have been modest. The holding company’s name was changed in 2001 to AmericanWest Bancorporation. The limited trading market for the common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of the common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of the common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in AWBC’s common stock develops, AWBC cannot assure that such a market will continue or that shareholders will be able to sell their shares. AWB’s allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, AWB maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments, which when combined is referred to as the allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect operating results. AWB’s allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as on an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Bank’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the loans and allowance for credit losses. While the Bank’s management believes that the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover current losses, AWB cannot assure that the allowance for credit losses will not be increased further or that regulators will not require an increase in this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially adversely affect earnings. AmericanWest Bank may be unable to integrate the proposed combined operations with Columbia Trust Bank successfully and its business and earnings may be negatively affected as a result. The merger involves the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration will depend primarily on AWB’s ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. No assurance can be given that AWB will be able to integrate its post-merger operations without encountering difficulties including, without limitation: the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Estimated cost savings are projected to come from various areas that AWB’s management has identified through the due diligence and integration planning process. The elimination of duplicate tasks is projected to result in annual cost savings. If AWB has difficulties with the integration, it might not fully achieve the economic benefits it expects to result from the merger. In addition, AWB may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of the business of CTB, or may not realize expected cost savings from the merger within the expected time frame. Finally, shares of AWBC common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in the acquisition of Columbia Trust Bancorp and any other offering of AWBC common stock for cash, could have a dilutive effect on the market for AWBC common stock and could adversely affect its market price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. No unresolved staff comments to report. 15 Table of Contents 