Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors are not listed in any particular order and should not be considered to include all risks to the Company. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may harm financial performance. Unfavorable changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing 11 Table of Contents characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may increase the net interest margin and loan yield, but it may adversely affect the ability of borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. The Company does not have control of these factors. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially harm the net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could harm business. The Company currently conducts its banking operations primarily in Central and Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho. In 2006, the Company opened a loan production office in the Salt Lake City, Utah area and expects to continue its expansion into Utah during 2007. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services within the market area of the Bank. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions including, without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. The Company also faces competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in the Bank’s market areas. If the Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, the Company may be unable to continue to grow the loan and deposit portfolios, and results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be harmed. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in the Company’s market area, could harm business. The Company’s business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, in particular an economic slowdown in Central and Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially hurt the business of the Company: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. The States of Washington and Idaho and certain local governments in the market area presently face fiscal challenges the long term impact of which on either State’s or the local economy cannot be predicted. A downturn in the real estate market could harm business. A significant downturn in the real estate market, especially in those markets served by the Bank, could harm business because a significant portion of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate. The ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and the Bank would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. 12 Table of Contents A substantial amount of the Bank’s real property collateral is located in Central and Eastern Washington. The bank has significant concentrations of credit in commercial real estate loans. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, an economic slowdown, an increase in interest rates, drought and other natural disasters, specific to Washington. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may harm prospects. The Company currently depends heavily on the services of its president and chief executive officer, Robert M. Daugherty, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of Mr. Daugherty’s services or that of other key personnel could harm the results of operations and financial condition. Success also depends in part on the ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel required. The Company is subject to extensive regulation which could harm business. The operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. Because the banking business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to frequent change. There are typically proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would adversely impact operations. These proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, could (1) make compliance more difficult or expensive, (2) restrict the ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold, or (4) otherwise harm business or prospects for business. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the ordinary course of business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could be or become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Company may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, the business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP), the Company maintains an allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for credit losses could harm operating results. The allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the loans and allowance for credit losses. While management believes that the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover current losses, management may decide to increase the allowance for credit losses or regulators may require the Company to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could reduce future earnings. If the Company is unable to consummate the pending merger transaction with Far West Bancorporation (FWB) or successfully integrate FWB’s operations, its business and earnings may be negatively affected. The merger with FWB is expected to be completed on or about April 1, 2007, but is subject to shareholder approval, which may not be received, and customary closing conditions, which may not be satisfied. If the Company cannot complete the merger, it will have incurred expenses and will never see the 13 Table of Contents benefits anticipated from the merger. If the merger is complete, the Company will integrate two companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of FWB operations will depend primarily on the Company’s ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. It is possible that the Company might not be able to integrate its post-merger operations without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. If the Company has difficulties with the integration, it might not fully achieve the economic benefits it expects from the merger. In addition, the Company may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties related to the integration of the business of FWB, and/or may not realize expected cost savings from the merger within the expected time frame. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 