Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should not be considered to include all risks to the Company or all risks related to an investment in the Company. The Company may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. The Company has determined that significant additional sources of liquidity and capital will likely be required to continue operations in the future. The Company has engaged financial advisors to explore strategic alternatives to resolve the capital and liquidity deficiencies. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain sufficient liquidity or to raise additional capital to satisfy regulatory requirements and meet obligations as they occur. Further, federal and state regulators are continually monitoring the Bank’s liquidity and capital adequacy and evaluating the Company’s ability to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner. The Bank’s regulators could, if deemed warranted, take further actions, including the assumption of control of the Bank, to protect the interests of the depositors insured by the FDIC. The uncertainty regarding the Company’s ability to obtain additional capital or meet future liquidity requirements raises doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements included under Part II, item 8 of this report, however, do not include any adjustments that may result as an outcome of these uncertainties. The Company is required to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available. The Company and the Bank are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. Additional capital is also required for the Company to support future growth, absorb loan losses and use brokered deposits without regulatory approval. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance and prospects. Accordingly, the Company cannot be certain of its ability to raise additional capital. If capital is available, the costs of such capital may be very high and extremely dilutive to existing shareholders. If the Company cannot raise additional capital the Bank may be subject to additional adverse regulatory action. If capital levels continue to deteriorate, it is likely that the Company will need to seek to merge with another institution or raise capital through new investors in an extremely dilutive transaction on terms that could be considered unfavorable by current shareholders, or face the prospect of being placed into receivership, resulting in a complete loss of an investment in the Company. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption for more than twenty four months. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer loan delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these 14 Table of Contents difficult market conditions on the Bank and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Bank may face the following risks in connection with these events: • There could be increased regulation of the industry. • The Bank’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches the Bank uses to select, manage, and underwrite its loans become less predictive of future behaviors and performance. • The process the Bank uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • The Bank’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. • The Bank may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or an unforeseen outflow of cash. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business and the Bank relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of operations. Due to circumstances that the Company may be unable to control, such as a general capital markets disruption or negative news about banks generally, liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets, an unforeseen outflow of cash due to depositor withdrawals or a disruption in lending programs of the FRB or FHLB. As a result of the Bank’s regulatory capital falling below the requirements for adequately capitalized status as of December 31, 2008, the Bank has been unable to issue brokered certificates of deposit and faces regulatory limits in the rates it can pay to depositors. The Bank participates in the TAGP, which provides that all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully guaranteed by the FDIC for the entire amount in the account. The TAG Program is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2010, and depositors may choose to lower balances in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts or move such accounts prior to the expiration, which would have an adverse impact on the Bank’s liquidity. Most of the Company’s assets are loans, which if not repaid would result in losses to the Bank. The Bank is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. Underwriting and documentation controls do not always work effectively. A further downturn in the economy or the real estate market in the market areas or a rapid increase in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans are placed on non-accrual status, thereby reducing interest income. Further, under these circumstances, an additional provision for loan and lease losses or unfunded commitments may be required. The Bank has a significant concentration in real estate loans and continued deterioration in the economy of the markets served or the real estate market specifically could significantly harm its business and prospects for growth. As of December 31, 2009, the loan portfolio consisted of: • 49% commercial real estate loans; • 15% residential real estate loans; • 13% construction, land development and other land loans; 15 Table of Contents • 11% agricultural loans; • 10% commercial and industrial; and • 2% installment and other loans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 77% of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, the Bank has experienced increasing levels of net charge-offs and allowances for loan and lease reserves. Continued increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company maintains an allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could adversely impact operating results. The allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the inherent risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the loans and allowance for credit losses. While management believes that the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover current potential losses, management may decide to increase the allowance for credit losses or regulators may require the Company to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could reduce future earnings and regulatory capital ratios. A substantial amount of the Company’s real property collateral is located in Central and Eastern Washington and Utah and a further downturn in the real estate markets or prolonged recessionary climate could harm the Company’s business. The effects of the current economic recession have been particularly severe in the Company’s primary market areas. The States of Washington, Idaho and Utah and certain local governments in the market area presently face fiscal challenges the long term impact of which on State or local economies cannot be predicted. Significant declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly severe in Utah. A further downturn in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in recovery could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase resulting in further price pressures on valuations generally; demand for products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans. If the Bank is not able to reduce nonperforming assets and the related losses being recognized, the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern becomes doubtful. The existing capital levels will not support further deterioration in asset quality and the corresponding recognition of losses. Additional capital is needed both to meet regulatory “well capitalized” levels and to support any potential future losses. The Company may be subject to additional regulatory enforcement action that could place significant restrictions on the Company’s operations. Under applicable laws, the FDIC and the DFI have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions and requirements on the Bank if they determine, upon examination or otherwise, violations of laws with which the Company must comply, or weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Applicable law prohibits disclosure of specific examination findings by the institution although formal enforcement actions are routinely disclosed by the regulatory authorities. The FDIC and DFI may require certain corrective steps, impose limits on activities, prescribe lending parameters and require additional capital to be raised. Failure to adhere to the requirements, if imposed, could result in more severe restrictions including seizure of the Bank. Generally, these enforcement actions can be lifted only after subsequent examinations substantiate complete correction of the underlying issues. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s common stock will likely no longer qualify for listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market after March 14, 2010. On March 4, 2010, the Company informed NASDAQ of the Company’s decision to voluntary delist its common stock effective March 15, 2010. This decision was based upon the consideration of a number of factors, including available alternatives to cure a minimum bid price deficiency under NASDAQ rules, the direct and indirect costs of listing and compliance, the limited trading volume in its common stock and other factors. Once the Company’s shares are subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, there is no assurance that a liquid and efficient market for AmericanWest Bancorporation common stock will be available or develop. Although the shares may be eligible for trading on other exchanges, such as the “OTC Bulletin Board,” it is possible that the ability of a selling shareholder to realize the best market price will be impeded as the result of wider bid-ask spreads. Conditions in the financial markets may limit the Company’s access to additional funding to meet liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to the Bank’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, or the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on the Bank’s liquidity. The Bank’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities could be impaired by factors that affect the Bank specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Bank’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of business activity due to a market down turn or adverse regulatory action against the Bank. The Bank’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to the Bank, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative developments and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. The Bank’s wholesale funding sources and balance sheet liquidity may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity or withdrawal. The Bank must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of its liquidity management, the Bank depends upon a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments The Company’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if the Bank is unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. The Bank’s ability to borrow on a secured basis may be reduced as a result of adjustments in collateral coverage requirements. In the case of the FHLB, the Bank’s borrowing capacity may be reduced due to concerns regarding the Bank’s financial condition and/or the FHLB’s unilateral decision to curtail certain lending in an effort to improve regulatory capital ratios. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may harm financial performance. Unfavorable changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may increase the net interest margin and loan yield, but it may adversely affect the ability of borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. The Company cannot control of these factors. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially harm the net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. If the Company’s foreclosed assets are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if the Company is required to increase its valuation reserves, it could suffer additional losses. The Bank obtains updated valuations when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned and at certain other times. The net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value, or fair value, of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs. A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s net book value over its fair value. If property values decline, the fair value of the foreclosed assets may not be sufficient to recover the carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need 17 Table of Contents for additional charge-offs. Significant charge-offs to the foreclosed assets could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the foreclosed assets and may require the Company to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in the charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. The Company has continuing losses and continuing volatility in quarterly results. The Company reported a net loss of $71.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 and $192.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Losses resulted from the high level of non-performing assets and the related reduction in interest income and increased provision for loan losses, and goodwill impairment charges. All of the goodwill has been written off, however, the Company may continue to suffer further losses as a result of credit-related factors. In addition, several other factors affecting the business can cause significant variations in the quarterly results of operations. In particular, variations in the volume of loan originations and sales, the differences between the costs of funds and the average interest rate earned on investments and other-than-temporary impairment charges in the Company’s investment securities portfolio could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will reduce the Company’s earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment annual rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased the Company’s deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounted to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. The Company’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for 2009 was $7.8 million. The Bank’s investment in FHLB stock may become impaired. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank held $10.3 million of FHLB stock as required under certain borrowing agreements. During the first quarter of 2009, the FHLB indicated that its ability to pay future dividends was uncertain due to reduction of its retained earnings resulting from the recognition of investment security impairments. The valuation of the FHLB stock with the Bank may become impaired if the FHLB is unable to pay a cash dividend or continues to experience significant losses for an extended period. During 2009, the Company did not recognize any dividend income from FHLB stock. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could harm business. The Company currently conducts its banking operations primarily in Central and Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho and Utah. Increased competition in its markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services within the Company’s market area, including national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, the competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs 18 Table of Contents of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and the range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. The Company also faces competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in its market areas. If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, the Company may be unable to continue to grow the loan and deposit portfolios and results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be harmed. The Bank is unable to pay the holding company cash dividends to meet its cash obligations. Dividends paid by the Bank to the Parent Company provided cash flow used to service the interest payments on trust preferred securities. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to the Parent Company without regulatory approval. Currently, the Bank’s payment of dividends is restricted. Effective the third quarter of 2008 the Parent Company deferred the interest payments on the trust preferred securities, in accordance with the provisions of the related indentures, in an effort to minimize the required dividend from the Bank and since the Supervisory Directive (as superseded by the Order) requires approval and consent before paying any such dividends. The Parent Company will not be able to service its debt or pay its obligations until it receives dividends from the Bank or receives new capital. Federal and state governments could pass legislation responsive to current credit conditions. The Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, the Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or that makes foreclosure less economically feasible. The value of securities in the investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some investment securities held in the Bank’s portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and capital levels. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company’s business and require the Company to raise additional capital. In addition to the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (CPP) under the TARP announced in the fall of 2008, the U.S. Treasury, Federal Reserve and the FDIC have taken further steps to support and regulate the financial services industry, that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. Also, the U.S. Congress, through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA) and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), have imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of financial services firms participating in the federal programs. These programs subject the Company and other financial institutions who participate in them to additional restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs, which could have an adverse impact on the business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of the Company’s common stock. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Federal and state legislatures could also adopt laws reducing the amount that borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts or require lenders to extend or restructure certain loans. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt 19 Table of Contents changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. The Company cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation, or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase costs, impede the efficiency of internal business processes, require the Company to increase regulatory capital and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict the Company’s activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the FDIC adopted guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. This guidance is intended to help ensure that institutions pursuing a significant commercial real estate lending strategy remain healthy and profitable while continuing to serve the credit needs of their communities. The federal agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The regulatory guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. There are two numerical measures in the regulatory guidance. The thresholds of numerical indicators in the guidance that indicate significant commercial real estate loan concentrations are as follows: (1) loans in the Call Report (the quarterly Report of Condition required to be filed with federal banking regulators) categories of Construction, Land Development and Other Land loans are greater than 100% of an institution’s total Capital; and (2) commercial real estate loans, as defined in the guidance, are greater than 300% of an institution’s total Capital. The first numerical indicator, the aggregate of construction, land development and other land loans divided by the Bank’s total Capital was 328% as of December 31, 2009. The second numerical indicator, the aggregate of non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, divided by the Bank’s total Capital was 1082% as of December 31, 2009. Accordingly, the Bank’s portfolio meets the definition of a concentration, as set forth in the guidelines. The guidance does not limit banks’ commercial real estate lending, but rather guides institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations. The Bank’s lending and risk management practices are taken into account in supervisory evaluations of its capital adequacy. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may harm prospects. The Company currently depends heavily on the services of its key management personnel. The loss of services of key personnel in the future could harm the results of operations and financial condition. Success also depends in part on the ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel required or obtaining required regulatory approval for new personnel. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental and other liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the ordinary course of business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could be or become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Bank may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Bank ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, the business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards may impact how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 