ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described in this report before making a decision to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition in the future. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Industry The convenience store industry is highly competitive. The industry and geographic areas in which we operate are highly competitive and marked by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering the products and services found in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, gasoline stations, supermarkets, drugstores, discount stores, club stores, and mass merchants. In recent years, several nontraditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores, and mass merchants have affected the convenience store industry by entering the gasoline retail business. These nontraditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the motor fuels market, and their market share is expected to grow. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry. To remain competitive, we must constantly analyze consumer preferences and competitors’ offerings and prices to ensure we offer convenience products and services consumers demand at competitive prices. We must also maintain and upgrade our customer service levels, facilities, and locations to remain competitive and attract customer traffic. Major competitive factors include, among others, location, ease of access, gasoline brands, pricing, product and service selections, customer service, store appearance, cleanliness, and safety. 8 Table of Contents The volatility of wholesale petroleum costs could adversely affect our operating results. Over the past three fiscal years, our gasoline revenues accounted for approximately 72% of total revenue and our gasoline gross profit accounted for approximately 23% of total gross profit. Crude oil and domestic wholesale petroleum markets are marked by significant volatility. General political conditions, acts of war or terrorism, and instability in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East and South America, could significantly affect crude oil supplies and wholesale petroleum costs. In addition, the supply of gasoline and our wholesale purchase costs could be adversely affected in the event of a shortage, which could result from, among other things, lack of capacity at United States oil refineries or the absence of gasoline contracts that guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply of gasoline. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale petroleum costs could result in significant increases in the retail price of petroleum products and in lower gasoline average margin per gallon. Increases in the retail price of petroleum products could adversely affect consumer demand for gasoline. Volatility makes it difficult to predict the impact that future wholesale cost fluctuations will have on our operating results and financial condition. These factors could adversely affect our gasoline gallon volume, gasoline gross profit, and overall customer traffic, which in turn would affect our sales of grocery and general merchandise and prepared food products. Wholesale cost increases of tobacco products could affect our operating results. Sales of tobacco products have averaged approximately 9% of our total revenue over the past three fiscal years, and our tobacco gross profit accounted for approximately 13% of total gross profit for the same period. Significant increases in wholesale cigarette costs or tax increases on tobacco products may have an adverse effect on unit demand for cigarettes domestically. Currently, major cigarette manufacturers offer rebates to retailers. We include these rebates as a component of our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are no longer offered or decreased, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase accordingly. In general, we attempt to pass price increases on to our customers. Due to competitive pressures in our markets, however, we may not always be able to do so. These factors could adversely affect our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette unit volume and revenues, merchandise gross profit, and overall customer traffic. Future legislation and campaigns to discourage smoking may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross profit. Future legislation and national, state and local campaigns to discourage smoking could have a substantial impact on our business, as consumers adjust their behaviors in response to such legislation and campaigns. Reduced demand for cigarettes could have a material adverse effect on sales of, and margins for, the cigarettes we sell. Future consumer or other litigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our retail operations are characterized by a high volume of customer traffic and by transactions involving a wide array of product selections. These operations carry a higher exposure to consumer litigation risk when compared to the operations of companies operating in many other industries. Consequently, we may become a party to individual personal injury, bad fuel, products liability and other legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. While these actions are generally routine in nature, incidental to the operation of our business and immaterial in scope, if our assessment of any action or actions should prove inaccurate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we are occasionally exposed to industry-wide or class-action claims arising from the products we carry or industry-specific business practices. For example, various petroleum marketing retailers, distributors and refiners are currently defending class-action claims alleging that the sale of unadjusted volumes of fuel at temperatures in excess of 60 degrees Fahrenheit violates various state consumer protection laws due to the expansion of the fuel with the increase of fuel temperatures. Certain claims asserted in these lawsuits, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages. Our defense costs and any resulting damage awards or settlement amounts may not be fully covered by our insurance policies. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations in a particular period or periods. 9 Table of Contents General economic conditions that are largely out of the Company’s control may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits could adversely affect the demand for products the Company sells in its stores. In addition, the recent turmoil in the financial markets may have an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economy, which could negatively impact consumer spending patterns. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence. Risks Related to Our Business Unfavorable weather conditions could adversely affect our business. All of our stores are located in the Midwest region of the United States, which is susceptible to thunderstorms, extended periods of rain, flooding, ice storms, and heavy snow. Inclement weather conditions could damage our facilities or could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel, and convenience store traffic patterns as well as our ability to operate our locations. In addition, we typically generate higher revenues and gross margins during warmer weather months, which fall within our first and second fiscal quarters. If weather conditions are not favorable during these periods, our operating results and cash flow from operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to identify, acquire, and integrate new stores, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. An important part of our recent growth strategy has been to acquire other convenience stores that complement our existing stores or broaden our geographic presence. From May 1, 2008 through April 30, 2009 we acquired 16 convenience stores. We expect to continue pursuing acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions involve risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ materially from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. These risks include: • The inability to identify and acquire suitable sites at advantageous prices; • Competition in targeted market areas; • Difficulties during the acquisition process in discovering some of the liabilities of the businesses that we acquire; • Difficulties associated with our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources needed to support our future growth; • Difficulties with hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel, including store managers; • Difficulties in adapting distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • Difficulties in obtaining governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores; • Difficulties in obtaining the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate from future acquired stores; • The potential diversion of our senior management’s attention from focusing on our core business due to an increased focus on acquisitions; and • Challenges associated with the consummation and integration of any future acquisition. We are subject to federal and state environmental and other regulations. Our business is subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that include but are not limited to environmental and employment laws and regulations; legal restrictions on the sale of alcohol, tobacco, and lottery 10 Table of Contents products; requirements related to minimum wage, working conditions, public accessibility, and citizenship. A violation of or change in such laws and/or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Under various federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and ordinances, we may, as the owner/operator of our locations, be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at these or our former locations, whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. Failure to remediate such contamination properly may make us liable to third parties and adversely affect our ability to sell or lease such property. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tanks may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. The remediation costs and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites could be substantial. We pay tank registration fees and other taxes to state trust funds established in our operating areas in support of future remediation obligations. These state trust funds are expected to pay or reimburse us for remediation expenses less a deductible. To the extent third parties do not pay for remediation as we anticipate, we will be obligated to make these payments, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reimbursements from state trust funds will be dependent on the maintenance and continued solvency of the various funds. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has yet to be discovered at existing locations or at locations we may acquire. We cannot assure you that we have identified all environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; that material environmental conditions not known to us do not exist; that future laws, ordinances, or regulations will not impose material environmental liability on us; or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist at any one or more of our locations. In addition, failure to comply with any environmental laws, regulations, or ordinances or an increase in regulations could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol, tobacco, and lottery products. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to approve, revoke, suspend, or deny applications for and renewals of permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies. Any appreciable increase in income, overtime pay, or the statutory minimum wage rate or adoption of mandated healthcare benefits would result in an increase in our labor costs. Such cost increase or the penalties for failing to comply with such statutory minimum could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. State or federal lawmakers or regulators may also enact new laws or regulations applicable to us that may have a material adverse and potentially disparate impact on our business. The dangers inherent in the storage and transport of motor fuel could cause disruptions and could expose to us potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities. We store motor fuel in storage tanks at our retail locations. Additionally, we transport a significant portion of our motor fuel in our own trucks, instead of by third-party carriers. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in transporting and storing motor fuel. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, fires, explosions, traffic accidents, spills, discharges and other releases, any of which could result in distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, governmentally-imposed fines or clean-up obligations, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. As a result, any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of litigation or adverse publicity resulting from concerns over food quality, health or other issues that could cause customers to avoid our convenience stores. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation arising from food-related illness or injury in general which could have a negative impact on our business. Additionally, negative publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid, concerning food quality, food safety or other health concerns, employee relations or other matters related to our operations may materially adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our convenience stores. 11 Table of Contents It is critical to our reputation that we maintain a consistent level of high quality at our convenience stores. Health concerns, poor food quality or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores could materially adversely affect the operating results of some or all of our stores. Because we depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of our industry, we could be adversely affected were we to lose key members of our senior management team. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be dversely affected. We also rely on our ability to recruit qualified store managers, supervisors, district managers, regional managers and other store personnel. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. We depend on our information technology (IT) systems to manage numerous aspects of our business transactions and provide analytical information to management. Our IT systems are an essential component of our business and growth strategies, and a serious disruption to our IT systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, physical and electronic loss of data, security breaches and computer viruses. Any disruption could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and cause our operation results to be reduced. Also, our business continuity plan could fail. Other Risks Any issuance of shares of our common stock in the future could have a dilutive effect on your investment. We could issue additional shares for investment, acquisition, or other business purposes. Even if there is not an immediate need for capital, we may choose to issue securities to sell in public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable. Raising funds by issuing securities would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Additionally, certain types of equity securities we may issue in the future could have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of existing holders of our common stock. The market price for our common stock has been and may in the future be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could significantly affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors: • A deviation in our results from the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • Statements by research analysts about our common stock, company, or industry; • Changes in market valuations of companies in our industry and market evaluations of our industry generally; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Actions taken by our competitors; • Sales of common stock by the Company, senior officers, or other affiliates; and • Other general economic, political, or market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. 12 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock will also be affected by our quarterly operating results and quarterly comparable store sales growth, which may be expected to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The following are factors that may affect our quarterly results and comparable store sales: general, regional, and national economic conditions; competition; unexpected costs; changes in retail pricing, consumer trends, and the number of stores we open and/or close during any given period; costs of compliance with corporate governance and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. Other factors are discussed throughout Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you pay. Our charter documents include provisions that may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change in control and adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation give the Company’s board of directors the authority to issue up to 1 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of the preferred stock without obtaining shareholder approval. The existence of this preferred stock could make it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of the Company by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest, or otherwise. Furthermore, this preferred stock could be issued with other rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock, thereby having a potentially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. At present, we have no plans to issue any preferred stock. Other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Iowa law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or hinder a change in management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, Section 409.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act prohibits publicly held Iowa corporations to which it applies from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in our stock price that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our stock. These governance provisions could affect the market price of our common stock. We may, in the future, adopt other measures that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing an unsolicited takeover, even if such a change in control were at a premium price or favored by a majority of unaffiliated shareholders. These measures may be adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 