Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed below that could materially affect our business, financial condition and/or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or future results. Some of our competitors have agreements with large group purchasing organizations, which have caused us to charge lower prices for some products and that may result in our losing sales in the future. Some of our competitors have, and may in the future enter into other, agreements with large group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), which are groups of hospitals and other large healthcare providers formed to combine their members’ purchasing power. Under these agreements, the members of a GPO are obligated to fulfill their requirements for the products covered by the agreement exclusively from the contract supplier. In the past, some of these GPOs have not strictly enforced this obligation against their members, and, by lowering our prices, we have been able to continue to sell our products directly to their members. However, should these GPOs determine to enforce this contractual obligation against their members, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales, and thus our operating results, in future periods. Our complete reliance on our Canadian manufacturing facility to produce substantially all of our CT and X-ray fluoroscopy barium sulfate formulation products may impair our ability to respond to natural disasters or other adverse events. A natural disaster or other event could result in losses at our Canadian manufacturing facility that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. Additionally, replacing or repairing our Canadian facility and certain manufacturing equipment would be difficult and could entail substantial replacement lead-time and expense. Further, if we were unable to adequately supply our core products to our customers for even a relatively short time, we could lose market share to our competitors. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks. Since we are a multinational corporation that sells products and sources products in many different countries, changes in exchange rate could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, we use Canadian dollars to purchase virtually all of our X-ray and CT barium sulfate formulation products -18- from our Canadian subsidiary for sale in the United States and for export outside of the United States. Consequently, we are exposed to the effects of changes in the Canadian dollar – U.S. dollar exchange rate. For further discussion regarding our currency risks refer to “Item 7A. – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk.” We currently purchase significant amounts of finished products, product components and raw materials from several single-source suppliers. We depend on several single and limited source suppliers for significant amounts of specialized medical devices, product components and the chemicals used in our contrast media formulations. We may experience an interruption of supply if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our time, quantity and quality requirements. There are relatively few alternative suppliers for some of these devices, components and chemicals. Any or all of these suppliers could discontinue manufacturing or supplying these products and components, experience interruptions in their operations, or raise their prices. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in production delays and increased costs and limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify alternative sources of supply, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs, increased prices for our products and lost product sales. The market dynamics and competitive environment in the healthcare industry are subject to rapid change, which may affect our operations. We believe that government regulation, private sector programs and reimbursement policies will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances. Consequently, the market dynamics and competitive environment in which we operate are subject to rapid change, which may affect our growth plans and operating results. If third parties claim that our products infringe on their intellectual rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time defending against such actions and our results of operations could suffer. Third parties may claim that our products infringe on their patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult because, in general, patent applications can be maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months after their earliest priority date. Some companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights, or assert that our products infringe its patents or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to stop selling products and/or make expensive changes to our product designs, license rights in order to continue manufacturing and selling our products, or pay substantial damages. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only consume our financial resources but also divert our management’s time and effort. Such claims could also cause our customers or potential customers to purchase competitors’ products or defer or limit their purchase or use of our affected products until resolution of the claim. -19- On June 20, 2007, Tyco Healthcare Group L.P. and two related parties filed a patent infringement action against us. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.” If the plaintiffs are successful in this action against us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. One distributor accounted for approximately 33% of our net sales in 2007, which exposes us to a concentration of credit risk. In November 2005, our second largest U.S. distributor acquired our largest U.S. distributor and, in 2007, the combined entity was responsible for approximately 33% of our worldwide sales. This exposes us to a greater degree of credit risk concentration than we had experienced previously. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade. Numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have led to a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including the consolidation of distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. We expect that this trend will continue which could further increase risk from credit concentration. The market potential for our RSDL skin decontaminant product is uncertain, and sales in this market are subject to complex governmental procedures. The market potential for our RSDL skin decontaminant (“RSDL”) is subject to a number of uncertainties. One factor is the nature of the military and first-responder procurement process itself — an unpredictable and lengthy bureaucratic process that often requires rigorous testing and product modifications before substantial orders are placed. Working with governmental agencies often involves several layers of administration, which can greatly reduce the speed of funding and increase the complexity of the procurement process itself, thus affecting the timing and amount of sales. Another factor related to U.S. government sales is the uncertainty of Congress’ continued funding approval of U.S. government contracts. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program each fiscal year. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract only if Congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. A third factor is the uncertainty surrounding the manner and extent to which RSDL will be deployed among the military and first-responder personnel. A fourth factor is the difficulty in quantifying the extent of the civilian emergency service organization market for RSDL. A fifth factor is the nature of government contracts, which often permit the government to unilaterally cancel or change individual orders, terminate the contract, audit our contract-related operations and control and potentially prohibit the export of the product. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on our RSDL sales in the future. If we fail to develop new products and enhance existing products, we could lose market share to our competitors and our results of operations could suffer. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, new and improved product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To be successful, we must develop and commercialize new products and enhanced versions of our existing products. Our products are technologically complex and require significant planning, design, development and testing before they may be marketed. This process generally takes at least nine to 18 months and may take up to several years. Our success in developing and commercializing new versions of our products is affected by our ability to: • timely and accurately identify new market trends; -20- • accurately assess customer needs; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain regulatory clearance or approval; • adopt competitive pricing; • timely manufacture and deliver products; • accurately predict and control costs associated with the development, manufacturing and support of our products; and • anticipate and compete effectively with our competitors’ efforts. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on our ability to demonstrate that our products are cost-effective and easier to use, as well as offer technological advantages. Additionally, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new versions of our products. As a result of such difficulties and delays, our development expenses may increase and, as a consequence, our results of operations could suffer. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These measures may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our patents may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents to produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Although we require our new employees, consultants and corporate partners to execute confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. The adoption rate of virtual colonoscopy as a screening modality for colon cancer continues to be slower than we anticipated and its future adoption is largely dependent on obtaining insurance reimbursement for screening. Our growth strategy involves investing a portion of our financial, management and other resources in proprietary products for, and further development of, the virtual colonoscopy market. To date, the adoption rate of virtual colonoscopy as a screening modality for colon cancer has been slower than we anticipated. We believe this is principally due to the present lack of private and public reimbursement standards for virtual colonoscopy screening. Additionally, the American Cancer Society (“ACS”) has not yet included virtual colonoscopy in its published screening guidelines for colon cancer, believing the evidence of its efficacy is insufficient at this time. The American College of Radiology Imaging Network has recently completed the National CT Colonograph Trial, also known as the ACRIN II Study, a 15-center, 2,500-patient trial endorsed by the ACS, whose goal is to determine if virtual colonoscopy is as effective as optical colonoscopy. We expect the results of the study to be published by the end of calendar of 2007. Although we believe that a favorable -21- outcome in this study is pivotal to obtaining reimbursement for virtual colonoscopy screening in the United States, there is no assurance that the outcome will be favorable. Together, these and other factors contribute to the uncertainty surrounding the evolution of the virtual colonoscopy market. If we cannot obtain approval from governmental agencies for new or modified products, we will not be able to sell those products. Our products are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in foreign countries where they are sold. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device or product that we wish to market in the United States must receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA before the product can be sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure, also known as “premarket notification,” is the process used for our current products. This process usually takes from three to 12 months from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, but may take significantly longer. Additionally, 510(k) clearances may be revoked by the FDA if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the products. The premarket approval process is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. It generally takes from one to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Achieving premarket approval may require numerous clinical trials and filing numerous amendments to the application. Regulatory regimes in other countries also require approval or clearance prior to marketing or selling medical devices and products in those countries. If we are unable to obtain additional clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products in the United States or elsewhere, or obtain these clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our revenues and profitability may decline. Inadequate levels of reimbursement or failure to obtain reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using our products may cause our revenues to decline or limit our ability to introduce new products or new applications for existing products. Third-party payors have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include: • controls on government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and price controls on medical products and service providers; • challenges to the pricing of medical procedures or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific devices and therapies through other means; and • the introduction of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. In November 2006, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) announced 2007 reimbursement rates for U.S. healthcare providers treating Medicare and Medicaid patients and also implemented various provisions of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 related to medical imaging procedures that affect our industry. CMS reimbursement rates now factor in a Sustainable Growth Rate (“SGR”) cut, which requires a 5% reduction in physician payments as determined by the SGR formula. A new CMS rule, effective January 1, 2007, caps payment rates for imaging services provided outside of hospital outpatient departments at the same amount paid under the physician fee schedule for such services performed in hospital outpatient departments. The new rule also establishes a policy of reducing by 25% the payment for the technical component of multiple -22- imaging procedures on contiguous body parts. While the long-term impact of these factors on our business is unclear, they have created uncertainty in the marketplace and, we believe, adversely affected the purchases of imaging capital equipment, at least in the short-term. We believe some hospitals and imaging centers have delayed plans to expand or upgrade their imaging services to newer CT imaging technology in order to further assess the economic impact of these factors on their businesses. There is risk that these factors may inhibit the growth of radiology procedures that utilize our existing or future products and have an adverse effect on our future sales and results of operations. We are unable to predict whether further Federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Numerous healthcare reforms have been considered that would result in major reforms in the United States and foreign healthcare systems that could have an adverse effect on our business. In response to higher healthcare costs, governmental and third-party payors are demanding ever higher levels of evidence of clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness in order to provide coverage for new procedures. Governmental and private third-party payors are requiring increasing levels of evidence of clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness as a prerequisite to covering new technologies and new applications for existing technologies. To the extent that the use of our current or future products is not described by existing Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes or covered under existing third-party coverage policies, reimbursement for these applications may not be attained or may be significantly delayed. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that prescribe reimbursement rates for new devices and procedures. These systems are subject to the same pressures to curb rising healthcare costs and control healthcare expenditures as those in the United States. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, sales of our products outside of the United States may decrease, and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant non-U.S. sales. If our spin-off of AngioDynamics were determined to be taxable, it could result in a potentially significant expense, which would diminish our financial resources. On October 30, 2004, we effected a spin-off to our stockholders of all of the AngioDynamics common stock we owned. We received a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to the effect that the distribution would be tax-free to us and to our stockholders for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. Although private letter rulings are generally binding on the IRS, we will not be able to rely on the ruling if any of the factual representations or assumptions we made to obtain the ruling are, or become, incorrect or untrue in any material respect. If the IRS subsequently holds our spin-off to be taxable, the above favorable tax treatment would not apply, and both E-Z-EM and our stockholders could be subject to tax. These liabilities could be substantial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -23- 