ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those described below. Our Development Activities Have Not Generated Significant Revenues At present, our activities are focused on water resource, agricultural, and renewable energy development at our San Bernardino County properties. We have not received significant revenues from our development activities to date and we do not know when, if ever, we will receive operating revenues sufficient to offset the costs of our development activities. As a result, we continue to incur a net loss from operations. We May Never Generate Significant Revenues Or Become Profitable Unless We Are Able To Successfully Implement Programs To Develop Our Land Assets And Related Water Resources We do not know the terms, if any, upon which we may be able to proceed with our water and other development programs. Regardless of the form of our water development programs, the circumstances under which transfers or storage of water can be made and the profitability of any transfers or storage are subject to significant uncertainties, including the risk of variable water supplies and changing water allocation priorities. Additional risks include our ability to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals and permits, possible litigation by environmental or other groups, unforeseen technical difficulties, general market conditions for real estate and water supplies, and the time needed to generate significant operating revenues from such programs after operations commence. 7 The Development Of Our Properties Is Heavily Regulated, Requires Governmental Approvals And Permits That Could Be Denied And May Have Competing Governmental Interests And Objectives In developing our land assets and related water resources, we are subject to local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, environmental impacts, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, construction and similar matters. Our development activities are subject to the risk of adverse interpretations or changes to U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies. Further, our development activities require governmental approvals and permits that, if denied or granted subject to unfavorable conditions or restrictions, would adversely impact our ability to successfully implement our development programs. The opposition of government officials may adversely affect our ability to obtain needed government approvals and permits upon satisfactory terms in a timely manner. In this regard, federal government appropriations currently preclude spending for any proposal to store water for the purpose of export or for any activities associated with the approval of rights-of-way on lands managed by the Needles Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management. As a result of the new right-of-way with the Arizona & California Railroad Company, discussed further under “Water Resource Development” above, we do not believe federal approval will be required to implement the Cadiz Project. A significant portion of our Cadiz Valley property is included in a study area as part of the Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”) process for the expansion of the Marine Corp Air Ground Combat Center in Twentynine Palms, California. Our property is included in one of the five different alternatives that will be studied for the base expansion during the EIS process over the next three years. If any of the Cadiz Valley landholdings are included in the final expansion area, then we will be entitled to full fair market value compensation for any property taken. Additionally, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge proposed plans and approvals. In California, third parties have the ability to file litigation challenging the approval of a project, which they usually do by alleging inadequate disclosure and mitigation of the environmental impacts of the project. Opposition from environmental groups could cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such development entirely. While we have worked with representatives of various environmental interests and agencies to minimize and mitigate the impacts of our planned projects, certain groups may remain opposed to our development plans. Our Failure To Make Timely Payments Of Principal And Interest On Our Indebtedness May Result In A Foreclosure On Our Assets As of December 31, 2008, we had indebtedness outstanding to our senior secured lenders of approximately $41.3 million. Our assets have been put up as collateral for this debt. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness when due, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the terms of agreements governing our indebtedness, we may default on our obligations. If we default on our obligations, our lenders may sell off the assets that we have put up as collateral. This, in turn, would result in a cessation or sale of our operations. 8 The Conversion Of Our Outstanding Senior Indebtedness Into Common Stock Would Dilute The Percentage Of Our Common Stock Held By Current Stockholders Our senior indebtedness is convertible into common stock at the election of our lenders. As of December 31, 2008, our senior indebtedness was convertible into 1,920,323 shares of common stock, an amount equal to approximately 12% of the number of fully-diluted shares of our common stock outstanding as of that date. An election by our lenders to convert all or a portion of our senior secured indebtedness into common stock will dilute the percentage of our common stock held by current stockholders. We May Not Be Able To Obtain the Financing We Need To Implement Our Asset Development Programs We will require additional capital to finance our operations until such time as our asset development programs produce revenues. We cannot assure you that our current lenders, or any other lenders, will give us additional credit should we seek it. If we are unable to obtain additional credit, we may engage in further equity financings. Our ability to obtain equity financing will depend, among other things, on the status of our asset development programs and general conditions in the capital markets at the time funding is sought. Liquidity in the currently dislocated capital markets has been severely constrained since the beginning of the credit crisis. Although we currently expect our capital sources to be sufficient to meet our near term liquidity needs, there can be no assurance that our liquidity requirements will continue to be satisfied. Any further equity financings would result in the dilution of ownership interests of current stockholders. The Issuance Of Equity Securities Under Management Equity Incentive Plans Will Impact Earnings Our compensation programs for management emphasize long-term incentives, primarily through the issuance of equity securities and options to purchase equity securities. It is expected that plans involving the issuance of shares, options, or both will be submitted from time to time to our stockholders for approval. In the event that any such plans are approved and implemented, the issuance of shares and options under such plans may result in the dilution of the ownership interest of other stockholders and will, under currently applicable accounting rules, result in a charge to earnings based on the value of our common stock at the time of issue and the fair value of options at the time of their award. The expense would be recorded over the vesting period of each stock and option grant. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable at this time. 