ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those described below. Our Development Activities Have Not Generated Significant Revenues At present, our development activities are focused on water resource and real estate development at our San Bernardino County properties. We have not received significant revenues from our development activities to date and we do not know when, if ever, we will receive operating revenues from these activities. As a result, we continue to incur a net loss from operations. We May Never Generate Significant Revenues Or Become Profitable Unless We Are Able To Successfully Implement Programs To Develop Our Land Assets And Related Water Resources We do not know the terms, if any, upon which we may be able to proceed with our water and real estate development programs. Regardless of the form of our water development programs, the circumstances under which transfers or storage of water can be made and the profitability of any transfers or storage are subject to significant uncertainties, including the risk of variable water supplies and changing water allocation priorities. Both water and real estate development programs are subject to the risk of adverse changes in public policies and changes to or interpretations of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies. Additional risks include our ability to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals and permits, possible litigation by environmental or other groups, unforeseen technical difficulties, general market conditions for real estate and water supplies, and the time needed to generate significant operating revenues from such programs after operations commence. The Development of our Properties is Heavily Regulated and Requires Governmental Approvals And Permits That Could Be Denied In developing our land assets and related water resources, we are subject to local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, environmental impacts, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, construction and similar matters. Our development activities are subject to the risk of adverse interpretations or changes to these laws and policies. Further, our development activities require governmental approvals and permits that, if denied or granted subject to unfavorable conditions or restrictions, would adversely impact our ability to successfully implement our development programs. The opposition of government officials may adversely affect our ability to obtain needed government approvals and permits upon satisfactory terms in a timely manner. In this regard, 2008 fiscal year federal government appropriations did not include funding to allow for Cadiz Project permit work at the U.S. Department of the Interior. 8 Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge proposed plans and approvals. In California third parties have the ability to file litigation challenging the approval of a project, which they usually do by alleging inadequate disclosure and mitigation of the environmental impacts of the project. Opposition from environmental groups could cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such development entirely. While we have worked with representatives of various environmental interests and agencies to minimize and mitigate the impacts of our planned projects, certain groups may remain opposed to our development plans. Our Failure To Make Timely Payments Of Principal And Interest On Our Indebtedness May Result In A Foreclosure On Our Assets As of December 31, 2007, we had indebtedness outstanding to our senior secured lenders of approximately $39.3 million. Our assets have been put up as collateral for this debt. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow to make principal and interest on this indebtedness when due, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the terms of agreements governing our indebtedness, we may default on our obligations. If we default on our obligations, our lenders may sell off the assets that we have put up as collateral. This, in turn, would result in a cessation or sale of our operations. The Conversion Of Our Outstanding Senior Indebtedness Into Common Stock Would Dilute The Percentage Of Our Common Stock Held By Current Stockholders Our senior indebtedness is convertible into common stock at the election of our lenders. As of December 31, 2007, our senior indebtedness was convertible into 1,825,731 shares of our common stock, an amount equal to approximately 15.3% of the number of shares of our common stock outstanding as of that date. An election by our lenders to convert all or a portion of our senior secured indebtedness into common stock will dilute the percentage of our common stock held by current stockholders. We May Not Be Able To Obtain the Financing We Need To Implement Our Asset Development Programs We will require additional capital to finance our operations until such time as our asset development programs produce revenues. We cannot assure you that our current lenders, or any other lenders, will give us additional credit should we seek it. If we are unable to obtain additional credit, we may engage in further equity financings. Our ability to obtain equity financing will depend, among other things, on the status of our asset development programs and general conditions in the capital markets at the time funding is sought. Any further equity financings would result in the dilution of ownership interests of our current stockholders. 9 The Issuance Of Equity Securities Under Management Equity Incentive Plans Will Impact Earnings Our compensation programs for management emphasize long-term incentives, primarily through the issuance of equity securities and options to purchase equity securities. It is expected that plans involving the issuance of shares, options, or both will be submitted from time to time to our stockholders for approval. In the event that any such plans are approved and implemented, the issuance of shares and options under such plans may result in the dilution of the ownership interest of other stockholders and will, under currently applicable accounting rules, result in a charge to earnings based on the value of our common stock at the time of issue and the fair value of options at the time of their award. The expense would be recorded over the vesting period of each stock and option grant. We Are Restricted By Contract from Paying Dividends and We Do Not Intend To Pay Dividends In The Foreseeable Future Any return on investment on our common stock will depend primarily upon appreciation in the price of our common stock. To date, we have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. The loan documents governing our credit facilities with our senior secured lenders prohibit the payment of dividends while such facilities are outstanding. As we have a history of operating losses, we have been unable to pay dividends to date. Even if we post a profit in future years, we currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate that we will declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable at this time. 10 