Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves risk. In evaluating the Company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. Each of these risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition, the “Forward-Looking Statements” located in this Form 10-K, and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference herein describe additional uncertainties associated with our business that should be carefully evaluated prior to making a decision to invest in our securities. 8 Risks Relating to Our Business Our future success, profitability and continued existence is dependent in large part upon the successful development of the BACcel™ system. We have spent a significant amount of resources developing the BACcel™ system and intend to spend a significant amount more in the future and there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop the BACcel™ system. If we are not successful in the development of the BACcel™ system, or if we are unable to sell it into the marketplace or license it to a third party strategic partner for its development, manufacturing and marketing, it would have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s revenues and results of operations, it could lead to impairment of certain of our intellectual property and would likely have a material adverse effect upon the price of the our Common Stock, our results of operations and may result in us having to cease operations. Our success depends partly on our ability to successfully introduce and the market acceptance of our current and new products. In a market primarily driven by the need for innovative products, our revenue growth will depend on overcoming various technological challenges to successfully introduce our current and new products, including but not limited to the BACcel™ system or other technology based upon the intellectual property included in the BACcel™ system into the marketplace in a timely manner. In addition, we must continue to develop new applications for our existing technologies, including but not limited to, additional commercial applications for the BACcel™ system proprietary technology. Market acceptance of these products will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, demonstrating that our technologies perform as intended and are superior to other technologies and products that are currently available or may become available in the future. If we are unable to successfully develop new products or if the market does not accept our products, or even if we experience difficulties or delays in the development of our products, including the BACcel™ system, we may be unable to attract additional customers for our products or license our products to other strategic partners, which would seriously harm our business and future growth prospects. Limited revenues from our products and no assurance of future revenues. We have received limited revenue from sales based on products using our OptiChem technology. There is no assurance that we will be successful in marketing our OptiChem products in the future or will receive any revenue from such products. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in marketing the BACcel™ system or will receive any revenues from it. During the fiscal years ended July 31, 2012 and 2011, we experienced losses from operations. If we are unsuccessful in completing the development of the BACcel™ system and generating revenues from such product, we will likely continue to experience losses from operations and negative cash flow as we have in the past, which may have a material adverse effect upon the Company, its results of operations and the price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Dependence on key employees. The loss or failure to attract and retain key personnel could significantly impede our performance, including product development, strategic plans, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our senior management, but particularly upon Lawrence Mehren, our Chief Executive Officer and President. We do not have key man life insurance on Mr. Mehren. To the extent that the services of Mr. Mehren would be unavailable to us, we would be required to find another person to perform the duties Mr. Mehren otherwise would perform. We may be unable to employ another qualified person with the appropriate background and expertise to replace Mr. Mehren on terms suitable to us. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop and market our products, develop new products and to conduct our operations successfully. 9 If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, we may be unable to prevent infringement. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for the technology underlying our products, especially that used in the BACcel™ system, both in the United States and in other countries. We cannot assure you that any of the presently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, or that any patents issued to us or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or held unenforceable. Further, we cannot guarantee that any patents issued to us will provide us with a significant competitive advantage. If we fail to successfully enforce our proprietary technology or otherwise maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property with respect to our significant current and proposed products, our competitive position, our ability to complete the development of the BACcel™ system and future sales or license of this product or technology could suffer, which would have a material adverse effect upon the Company and its results of operations. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal to or superior to our technology and proposed products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. If customers prefer these alternative technologies and products as compared to our technology and proposed products, it may have a material adverse effect upon the Company, our results of operations and the price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Due to the significant number of U.S. and foreign patents issued to, and other intellectual property rights owned by entities operating in the industry in which we operate, we believe that there is a significant risk of litigation arising from infringement of these patents and other rights. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us or our licensees. We may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe on a third party's proprietary rights. In addition, even if such claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit may result in substantial expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We may also be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. Furthermore, claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties, and we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent issued patents owned by or licensed to us or claim that our products and operations infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. In addition to our patents, we possess an array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. The measures that we employ to protect this technology and these rights may not be adequate. We may incur significant expense in any legal proceedings to protect our proprietary rights or to defend infringement claims by third parties. In addition, claims of third parties against us could result in awards of substantial damages or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the United States or abroad. Competition. The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological changes, and we face and expect to continue to face competition for our products. We may also face competition from non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies that may offer alternatives to our products. Many of our competitors have greater research and development, financial, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may, individually or together with companies affiliated with them, have greater human and scientific resources than we do. Our competitors could develop technologies and methods that render our technologies and methodologies less competitive. Accordingly, if competitors introduce products that are more effective than our current and proposed technologies, including but not limited to the BACcel™ system, it could have a material adverse effect upon the Company, our results of operations and the price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Ability to respond to technological change. Our future success will depend significantly on our ability to enhance our current products and develop or acquire and market new products that keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards as well as respond to changes in customer needs. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing or acquiring product enhancements or new products to address changing technologies and customer requirements adequately, that we can introduce such products on a timely basis or that any such products or enhancements will be successful in the marketplace. Our delay or failure to develop or acquire technological improvements or to adapt our products to technological change would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 We use hazardous materials in some of our research, development and manufacturing processes. Our research activities sometimes involve the controlled use of various hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We could be held liable for any damages that might result from any accident or release involving such materials. Any such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products. We have a single research and development facility and we may lose revenue and be unable to continue to conduct our research and development and product development activities if we lose this facility. We currently conduct all of our research and development and product development activities in our existing facility in Denver, Colorado. The lease expires in February 2013, at which time we intend to move into a single facility in Tucson, Arizona. If we were unable to use these facilities to conduct our research and development and product development activities, we would have no other means of conducting such activities until we were able to restore such capabilities at the current facility or develop an alternative facility. Further, in such an event, we may lose revenue and significant time during which we might otherwise have conducted research and development and product development activities. Further, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with our licensees or customers. While we carry a nominal amount of business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, our business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our licensees or customers. The loss of facility may have a material adverse effect upon the Company and its results of operations. Our business strategy approach may be adversely affected by additional healthcare reform and changes in managed healthcare. Our vision is to develop and commercialize the BACcel™ system, an innovative, integrated system for rapid identification of bacterial and its antibiotic resistance in critically ill patients. Healthcare reform and the growth of managed care organizations have been considerable forces in the medical diagnostics industry and in recent political discussions. These forces continue to and are expected in the future to place constraints on the levels of overall pricing and thus could have a material adverse effect on our future profit margins of our products or the amounts that we are able to receive from third parties for the licensing of such products. Such continuing changes in the United States healthcare market could also force us to alter our approach to selling, marketing, distributing and servicing our products and customer base. In and outside the United States, changes to government reimbursement policies could reduce the funding that healthcare service providers have available for diagnostic product expenditures, which could have a material adverse impact on the use of the products we are developing and our future sales, license and royalty fees and /or profit margin. We have and intend to make significant additional investments in research and development, but there is no guarantee that any of these investments will ultimately result in a commercial product that will generate revenues. The BACcel™ system integrates several of our component products, systems and processes. For the year ended July 31, 2012, we spent $431,906 and during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2011 we spent $454,997 on research and development expenses and we intend to spend significantly more on research and development activities during the fiscal year ending July 31, 2013 and thereafter. Notwithstanding these investments, we anticipate that we will have to spend additional funds in the research and development of the BACcel™ system. There can be no assurance that the BACcel™ system will be successful, or even if it is successful will be accepted in the marketplace. Further, we might also encounter substantial delays in getting products to market in a timely fashion. There can be no assurance that we will complete the development of the BACcel System, will bring it to market or will generate revenues from licensing or sales. 11 Changes in our business strategy or plans may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. If our business strategy or plans change, whether in response to changes in economic conditions or developments in the diagnostics industry, or otherwise, we may be required to expend significantly more resources than planned to develop the BACcel™ system, may have to cease developing the BACcel™ system or develop other products. The expense of such change could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The regulatory clearance or approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, and the failure to obtain and maintain required clearances or approvals could prevent us from commercializing our future products. We are investing in the research and development of new diagnostic tests, as well as to develop our novel BACcel™ system. Our products are subject to 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the FDA prior to their marketing for commercial use in the United States, and to any approvals required by foreign governmental entities prior to their marketing outside the United States. The 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval processes, as well as the process of obtaining foreign approvals, can be expensive, time consuming and uncertain. It generally takes from four to twelve months from submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and from one to three years from submission to obtain pre-market approval; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval may never be obtained. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products, including tests that are currently in design or development, would result in delayed, or no, realization of revenues from such products and in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. We have limited experience in filing FDA applications for 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval. In addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. There can be no assurance that we will obtain or maintain any required clearance or approval on a timely basis, or at all. Any failure to obtain or any material delay in obtaining FDA clearance or any failure to maintain compliance with FDA regulatory requirements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Colorado law and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits. Colorado law provides that our directors will not be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. The exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing stockholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile; Dividend Policy. The trading price of our Common Stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, in large part attributable to developments and circumstances related to factors identified in "Forward-looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" and the markets response to our operations and financial condition. The market value of your investment in our Common Stock may rise or fall sharply at any time because of this volatility, and also because of significant short positions that may be taken by investors from time to time in our stock. During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2012, the closing sale price for our Common Stock ranged from $0.77 to $3.80 per share. The market prices for securities of medical technology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Further, we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We may require additional capital in the future and you may incur dilution to your stock holdings. We have historically relied upon our existing cash balance, revenues and capital from the sale of our securities to fund our operating losses and we expect that we will continue to incur operating losses until we are able to complete the development of the BACcel™ system and sell it into the marketplace or license it to a third party. If capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional capital sooner than expected. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, any sale of a substantial number of additional shares will cause dilution to an investment in our Common Stock and could also cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. We have the authority to issue up to 45,000,000 shares of Common Stock, of which, as of October 15, 2012, 25,231,939 shares were outstanding) and to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our Common Stock (of which 4,140,000 options and 14,171,430 warrants to acquire shares of our Common Stock were issued and outstanding). Issuances of additional shares of our stock in the future could dilute existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 