ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those described below. Our Development Activities Have Not Generated Significant Revenues At present, our development activities include water resource, agricultural and solar energy development at our San Bernardino County properties. We have not received significant revenues from our development activities to date and we do not know when, if ever, we will receive operating revenues sufficient to offset the costs of our development activities. As a result, we continue to incur a net loss from operations. We May Never Generate Significant Revenues or Become Profitable Unless We Are Able to Successfully Implement Programs to Develop Our Land Assets and Related Water Resources We do not know the terms, if any, upon which we may be able to proceed with our water and other development programs. Regardless of the form of our water development programs, the circumstances under which supplies or storage of water can be developed and the profitability of any supply or storage project are subject to significant uncertainties, including the risk of variable water supplies and changing water allocation priorities. Additional risks include our ability to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals and permits, litigation by environmental or other groups, unforeseen technical difficulties, general market conditions for water supplies, and the time needed to generate significant operating revenues from such programs after operations commence. The Development of Our Properties Is Heavily Regulated, Requires Governmental Approvals and Permits That Could Be Denied, and May Have Competing Governmental Interests and Objectives In developing our land assets and related water resources, we are subject to local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, environmental impacts, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, construction and similar matters. Our development activities are subject to the risk of adverse interpretations or changes to U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies. Further, our development activities require governmental approvals and permits. If such permits were to be denied or granted subject to unfavorable conditions or restrictions, our ability to successfully implement our development programs would be adversely impacted. The opposition of government officials may adversely affect our ability to obtain needed government approvals and permits upon satisfactory terms in a timely manner. In this regard, federal government appropriations currently preclude spending for any proposal to store water for the purpose of export or for any activities associated with the approval of rights-of-way on lands managed by the Needles Field Office of the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”). Federal government appropriations also direct the U.S. Department of the Interior (the “DOI”) to confirm that the Water Project’s proposed use of a portion of ARZC’s for its conveyance pipeline is within the scope of ARZC’s right-of-way. According to existing federal law and direction from the DOI in Memorandum Opinion M-23075 a railroad has the authority to grant third party uses within its rights-of-way without BLM approval if those uses will serve a railroad purpose. The Project and pipeline will further numerous railroad purposes, including fire suppression and access to water for railroad business operations, and the ARZC has provided information regarding these purposes to the BLM. As a result, we do not believe federal right-of-way approval is required to implement the Project; however, this may be subject to challenge. 12 back to top Additionally, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge proposed plans and approvals. Opposition from third parties will cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such development entirely. In California, third parties have the ability to file litigation challenging the approval of a project, which they usually do by alleging inadequate disclosure and mitigation of the environmental impacts of the project. We are currently named as a real party in interest in eight lawsuits challenging the various Water Project approvals granted to date and expect to be party to various legal proceedings arising in the general course of our business related to the development of the Water Project. While we have worked with representatives of various environmental and third party interests and agencies to minimize and mitigate the impacts of our planned projects, certain groups may remain opposed to our development plans. Our Failure to Make Timely Payments of Principal and Interest on Our Indebtedness May Result in a Foreclosure on Our Assets As of December 31, 2012, we had indebtedness outstanding to our senior secured lenders of approximately $65.26 million. This debt was refinanced in March 2013 (see Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources), and remains secured by our assets. To the extent that we do not make principal and interest payments on the indebtedness when due in 2016, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the terms of agreements governing our indebtedness, we may default on our obligations. The Conversion of Our Outstanding Convertible Bonds into Common Stock Would Dilute the Percentage of Our Common Stock Held by Current Stockholders In connection with our debt refinance (see Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources), we issued approximately $53.5 million in bonds (the “Convertible Bonds”) Principal and accrued interest under the Convertible Bonds can be converted into common stock at $8.05 per share at the election of our lenders. An election by our lenders to convert all or a portion of principal and accrued interest under these Convertible Bonds into common stock will dilute the percentage of our common stock held by current stockholders up to 6.64 million shares as of March 5, 2013, and up to an additional 2.8 million shares if held to maturity. 13 back to top We May Not Be Able To Obtain the Financing We Need To Implement Our Asset Development Programs Based upon our current and anticipated usage of cash resources, we have sufficient funds to meet our expected working capital needs until mid 2014. We will continue to require additional working capital to meet our cash resource needs until such time as our asset development programs produce revenues. If we cannot raise funds if and when needed, we might be forced to make substantial reductions in our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our ability to implement our current business plan and ultimately our viability as a company. We cannot assure you that our current lenders, or any other lenders, will give us additional credit should we seek it. If we are unable to obtain additional credit, we may engage in further financings. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on the status of our asset development programs and general conditions in the capital markets at the time funding is sought. Although we currently expect our capital sources to be sufficient to meet our near term liquidity needs, there can be no assurance that our liquidity requirements will continue to be satisfied. Any further equity or convertible debt financings would result in the dilution of ownership interests of our current stockholders. The Issuance of Equity Securities Under Management Equity Incentive Plans Will Impact Earnings Our compensation programs for management emphasize long-term incentives, primarily through the issuance of equity securities and options to purchase equity securities. It is expected that plans involving the issuance of shares, options, or both will be submitted from time to time to our stockholders for approval. In the event that any such plans are approved and implemented, the issuance of shares and options under such plans may result in the dilution of the ownership interest of other stockholders and will, under currently applicable accounting rules, result in a charge to earnings based on the value of our common stock at the time of issue and the fair value of options at the time of their award. The expense would be recorded over the vesting period of each stock and option grant. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable at this time. 