ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Please carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the possibility of the loss of your entire investment, before deciding to invest in our securities. We will require additional capital and have no commitments for funding. Our operations consist solely of the Bull Durham and Doc Holliday casinos. We believe this operation can be self-sustaining. However, it is not expected to be sufficiently profitable to fund the capital resource needs of the parent company. These conditions make it unlikely that we could take advantage of future opportunities without a significant capital infusion. We will have to obtain such additional capital through borrowings or from additional equity financing. Additional future equity financing may occur through the sale of either unregistered common stock in exempt offerings or through the public offering of registered stock. In any case, such additional equity financing may result in additional dilution to investors. There can be no assurance that any additional capital, funding or revenues can satisfactorily be arranged. We have no arrangem ents for the acquisition of additional capital. We have leveraged our assets to secure repayment of debt. If we default in the repayment of the debt, we could forfeit our productive assets. All of our assets have been pledged as security for the repayment of debt in the approximate amount of $1.5 million. If we are unable to pay any of the debt, our assets would be subject to foreclosure by the creditor. Should foreclosure occur, it is likely that we would be forced to discontinue operations and our interest in the assets could be forfeited. These debts are currently due and we do not have the resources to retire the obligations. If the debt holders demand payment we could be forced to seek bankruptcy protection or be forced to liquidate the assets to satisfy the debts. We are currently engaged in discussions with both our existing lenders as well as new lenders to refinance the debt. While we have no agreement or commitments, we are optimistic that a refinance can be accomplished on reasonable terms. 9 Risks Related to our Gaming Operations If we fail to comply with gaming regulations, we could lose our gaming license or be subject to substantial fines. The operation of a casino gaming facility in Colorado requires a Colorado Limited Gaming License. A Colorado gaming license is a non-transferable, revocable privilege in which the licensee acquires no vested interest. The Colorado Gaming Commission could choose not to renew that license if it has concerns about our management, operations, business practices or associations. Additionally, any violation of gaming laws or regulations could result in the assessment of substantial fines against us and the persons involved. The suspension, revocation or non-renewal of any of our licenses or the levy on us of substantial fines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Holders of our stock are subject to investigation by the Colorado Gaming Commission. The Colorado Gaming Commission requires that any beneficial owner of five percent or more of our securities, including holders of our common stock, file an application for a finding of suitability. The gaming authority has the power to investigate an owner's suitability and the owner must pay all costs of the investigation. If the owner is found unsuitable, then the owner may be required by law to dispose of our securities. The Colorado Division of Gaming is currently requiring certain of our shareholders to file an application for finding of suitability. If they are found by the division to be unsuitable, they could be required to divest their share positions. Changes in regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations or which may otherwise adversely impact our operations. Any expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We face substantial competition from other gaming operations and other forms of gaming that could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. We operate in a very competitive environment. Casinos offering hotel accommodations for overnight stays may have a competitive advantage over our casino. In addition, many of the casinos in Black Hawk and Central City are operated by large companies with multi-state operations and substantial resources. Our casinos also indirectly face competition from other forms of gaming, including the Colorado state-run lottery, multi-state lottery, online computer gaming, charitable bingo and horse and dog racing, as well as other forms of entertainment. Additional legalization of gaming in Colorado could adversely affect our business. Additional legalization of gaming in or near any area from which our casino draws customers would adversely affect our business. Colorado law requires statewide voter approval for any expansion of limited gaming into additional locations and depending on the authorization approved by the statewide vote, may also require voter approval from the locality in question. Several attempts have been made by various parties in recent years to expand gaming in Colorado. However, to date none of this legislation has passed. However, there can be no assurance that such legislation will not 10 be implemented in Colorado. If such legislation is approved by the Colorado legislature or Colorado voters, it would likely have a material adverse impact on our future operating results. Construction of a new roadway from Interstate 70 to Central City has not had a material beneficial impact on our business. In November 2004, Central City completed a new four-lane road from Interstate 70 at Hidden Valley directly into downtown Central City. This roadway allows drivers to reach Central City without driving through Clear Creek Canyon and Black Hawk. While there was an initial increase in business following the opening of the highway, for the past several years that business has been waning, and we do not believe that it will have any lasting positive impact on Doc Holliday operations. We may face difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees for our casinos. The operation of our casinos requires qualified executives, managers and skilled employees with gaming industry experience and qualifications to obtain the requisite licenses. Currently, there is a shortage of skilled labor in the gaming industry. We believe this shortage will make it increasingly difficult and expensive for the manager of our casino to attract and retain qualified employees. Increasing competition in Black Hawk, Central City and competing markets may lead to higher costs in order to retain and attract qualified employees. We may incur higher labor costs in order for the casino management to attract qualified employees from existing gaming facilities. While we believe that we will be able to attract and retain qualified employees, we may have difficulty attracting a satisfactory number, and we may incur higher costs than expected as a result. Adverse weather, road conditions and infrastructure limitations affect our ability to attract customers. The location of our casinos in the Rocky Mountains creates a risk that it will be subject to inclement weather, particularly snow. Severe weather conditions could cause significant physical damage to the casino or result in reduced hours of operation or access to the casinos. Black Hawk and Central City are served by winding mountain roads that require cautious driving, particularly in bad weather, and are subject to driving restrictions and closure. Congestion on the roads leading to Black Hawk and Central City is common during the peak summer season, holidays and other times and may discourage potential customers from traveling to the casinos, particularly if road construction is in process. Because we are dependent on two casinos for all of our cash flow, local economic conditions and other local conditions and circumstances beyond our control could adversely affect our business. We are entirely dependent upon our two casinos for all of our cash flow. Therefore, we are subject to greater risks than a geographically diversified gaming company. These greater risks include those caused by any of the risks described in this section, including: - local economic and competitive conditions; - inaccessibility due to road construction or closure on primary access routes; - changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations; 11 - natural and other disasters; - a decline in the number of residents near or visitors to Black Hawk and Central City; or - a decrease in gaming activities in Black Hawk and Central City. Any of the factors outlined above could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to continue to operate our casino. A recession or economic slowdown could cause a reduction in visitation to the casino, which would adversely affect our operating results. The smoking ban in casinos has had a material adverse impact on gaming operations in Colorado, including our casinos. Effective January 1, 2008, a new Colorado law imposed a smoking ban applicable to all casinos in the state. Our data shows that a vast majority of our most important customers are smokers, and may be deterred from gaming because of the ban. Smoking bans in other jurisdictions have resulted in significant revenue declines. While the impact of the smoking ban on our casinos is uncertain, we believe that it has had an adverse impact on our gaming revenues. Increases in the price of gasoline has had a material adverse impact on the gaming industry. Black Hawk and Central City are only accessible by auto or bus. As a result, sharp increases in the price of gasoline has had a material adverse impact on our operations, inasmuch as the primary demographic of our customers is retired persons on fixed incomes. It is unlikely that we will be able to offset the effects of increased transportation costs with marketing and other incentives. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities, which could be costly. We are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, we could be held liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from our property without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property. Our casino is located within the geographic footprint of the Clear Creek/Central City Superfund Site, a large area of historic mining activity, which is the subject of state and federal clean-up actions. Although we have not been named a potentially responsible party for this Superfund Site, it is possible that as a result of our ownership and operation of our property (on which mining may have occurred in the past), we may occur costs related to this matter in the future. To date, none of these matters of other matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that such matters will not have such an effect in the future. 12 The rate of taxation on gaming profits may increase in the future. The Colorado Constitution permits a gaming tax of up to 40% on adjusted gross gaming proceeds. The Colorado Gaming Commission has the authority to set gaming tax rates and the current rate structure is a progressive scale with a maximum tax of 20%. The cities of Black Hawk and Central City have imposed an annual device fee of $946 and $1,265, respectively, per gaming device and it revises the same from time to time. The Colorado Gaming Commission has eliminated its annual device fee for gaming machines. The Colorado Gaming Commission may revise the gaming tax or re-impose the state device fee at any time and has been conducting annual reviews to reconsider and reevaluate the gaming taxes on or about July 1st of each year. We cannot assure you that the tax rates applicable to the casino will not be increased in the future by either the Colorado Gaming Commission or th e cities of Black Hawk or Central City. Additionally, from time to time, certain federal legislators have proposed the imposition of a federal tax on gaming revenues. Any such tax could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy have been experienced, the recent substantial increases in the cost of electricity in the United States may negatively affect our results of operations. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate because of seasonality and other factors. We typically generate the best operating profits in our fourth and first fiscal quarters, which end in June and September, respectively. These seasonal trends may impact our financial condition to the extent we need more funds during periods of slower activity in the future. We have not paid dividends and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business. Except for dividends payable on our outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock, we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, and other factors. The existence of outstanding convertible preferred stock, options and warrants may impair our ability to raise capital. At June 30, 2010, there were 835,000 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of convertible preferred stock and exercise of outstanding options and warrants at a weighted average exercise price of $1.00 per share. During the life of the preferred stock, options and warrants, the holders are given an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock with a resulting dilution in the interest of the other shareholders. Our ability to obtain additional financing during the period the warrants and options are outstanding may be adversely affected and the existence of the warrants and options may have an effect on the price of our common stock. The 13 holders of the warrants may be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital by a new offering of securities on terms more favorable than those provided by the warrants. There are trading risks for low priced stocks. Our common stock is currently traded in the over-the-counter market on the "Electronic Bulletin Board" of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. As a consequence, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our securities. The Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 requires additional disclosure, relating to the market for penny stocks, in connection with trades in any stock defined as a penny stock. The Commission recently adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such exceptions include any equity security listed on NASDAQ and any equity security issued by an issuer that has (i) net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for three (3) years, (ii) net tangible assets of at least $5,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three (3) years, or (iii) average annual revenue of at least $6,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for less t han three (3) years. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. If our securities are not quoted on NASDAQ, or we do not have $2,000,000 in net tangible assets, trading in our securities will be covered by Rules 15-g-1 through 15-g-6 promulgated under the Exchange Act for non-NASDAQ and non-exchange listed securities. Under such rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to this transaction. Securities are exempt from these rules if the market price of the common stock is at least $5.00 per share. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected by sales of restricted securities. Actual sales or the prospect of future sales of shares of our common stock under Rule 144 may have a depressive effect upon the price of, and market for, our common stock. As of September 25, 2010, there were 6,420,488 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. Approximately 2,110,242 of these shares are "restricted securities" and under some circumstances may, in the future, be under a registration under the Securities Act or in compliance with Rule 144 adopted under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, that sales of shares of common stock, or the availability of these shares for sale, will have on the market prices prevailing from time-to-time. Nevertheless, the possibility that substantial amounts of common stock may be sold in the public market may adversely effect prevailing prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of equity securities. 14 Our ability to issue additional securities without shareholder approval could have substantial dilutive and other adverse effects on existing stockholders and investors in this offering. We have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without shareholder approval. Future issuance of common stock could be at values substantially below the exercise price of the warrants, and therefore could represent further substantial dilution to you as an investor in this offering. In addition, we could issue large blocks of voting stock to fend off unwanted tender offers or hostile takeovers without further shareholder approval. Our corporate charter makes certain limitations on director liability. Our Articles of Incorporation provide, as permitted by Utah law, that our directors shall not be personally liable to the corporation or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, with certain exceptions. These provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by stockholders on behalf of us against directors. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Utah law. Changes in the corporate and securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of SOX, the SEC and major stock exchanges have promulgated new rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards that are likely to increase our general and administrative costs, and we expect these to continue to increase in the future. In particular, we are required to include the management report on internal control as part of this annual report for the year ending June 30, 2010 pursuant to Section 404 of SOX. We have evaluated our internal control systems in order (i) to allow management to report on, as required by these laws, rules and regulations, (ii) to provide reasonable assurance that our public disclosure will be accurate and complete, and (iii) to comp ly with the other provisions of Section 404 of SOX. Future compliance with SOX 404 will require a significant expenditure of human resources and finances, and could adversely impact our operations. Furthermore, there is no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other provisions of Section 404 in a timely fashion or achieve adequate compliance with these requirements or other requirements of SOX, we might become subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASD. Any such action may materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and the value of our securities, including our common stock. We expect that SOX and these other laws, rules and regulations will increase legal and financial compliance costs and will make our corporate governance activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these new requiremen ts will make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. 15 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide financial reports or prevent fraud, our business reputation and operating results could be harmed. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Members of our management have conflicts of interest. Our directors, are, or may become in their individual capacity, officers, and directors, controlling shareholders and/or partners of other entities engaged in a variety of businesses. Thus, they may develop conflicts of interest including, among other things, time, effort, and corporate opportunity, involved in participation with such other business entities. The amount of time that our directors will devote to our business will be limited. Current difficult conditions in the financial services markets may materially and adversely impact our business Dramatic declines in the values of, among other things, various derivative instruments, credit default swaps and the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have also led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and possibly a general reduction of business activity. A continuation of these conditions could have, among other things, the following potential negative effects: 1. A reduction in discretionary spending by consumers could significantly impact the customer traffic and revenues of our casino operations; and 2. While we do not depend on credit from the financial markets to finance our operations, most of our long-term debt has matured and must be refinanced. As of June 30, 2010 a note payable to the seller of the Doc Holliday Casino in the amount of $366,667 had matured on March 31, 2009, and was therefore in default. Since default, we have made interest payments under the default terms of the note. At the request of the note holder and beginning in January 2010, we have been making interest and additional monthly principal reduction payments of $12,500. As of the date of this report the Company has made all such monthly principal reduction and interest payments which have been accepted by the noteholder, however the note holder has not executed the modification agreement or a forebearance agreement, and as such all principal is considered in technical default. At June 30, 2010 the note had a principal balance of $ 279,167. And, as of the date of this report, other junior mortgage debt totaling $106,628 had also matured on September 19, 2009, and efforts to refinance or modify the terms of these notes with the noteholders has not been 16 successful. Since 2008, the financial markets have experienced disruption that has had a dramatic impact on the availability and cost of capital and credit. Our ability to re-finance our matured long-term debt will likely be affected by the current financial market conditions. If we are successful in obtaining financing of our long-term debt, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate rates and terms similar to those we currently have, and such negotiated rates could be significantly higher than those currently existing on our long-term debt. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 